SEE JUST PLEASE
REVIEW THE FULL PRINTED MEETING
AGENDA PROVIDED MANAGER LEONARD
WILL YOU CALL THE ROLL NO.
YES I'M SURE WHICH MR. ABRAMS
FIRST COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE COMMISSIONER
HERE I THOUGHT YOU WERE
COMMISSIONER TISCH COMMISSIONER
MILLS HERE COMMISSIONER WHETHER
IT BE HERE COMMISSIONER ADAMS
HERE COMMISSIONER HERE THANK
YOU.
WE ARE GOING TO MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER THREE APPROVAL OF THE
AGENDA.
I'M GOING TO THROW TO MANAGER
LEINERT REAL QUICK BECAUSE WE
HAVE A QUICK CHANGE
POTENTIALLY.
YES.
THERE HAS BEEN A SUGGESTION BY
A COUPLE OF COMMISSIONERS THAT
WE REVERSE ITEMS ELEVEN A AND
ELEVEN B AS ONE MIGHT RELATE TO
THE OTHER.
SO I PROPOSE A MOTION TO THE
EFFECT THAT THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED WITH THE MODIFICATION
TO MOVE ELEVEN EIGHT TO
IMMEDIATELY FOLLOW ITEM ELEVEN.
I WOULD MAKE THAT MOTION
SECONDED OK MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION ON
THE AGENDA MODIFICATION.
>> OK ALL THOSE IN FAVOR OF THE
MOTION PLEASE SAY I HE OPPOSED
THE MOTION CARRIES I HAVE A
MOTION TO APPROVE THE MINUTES
OF JULY 15TH TWENTY TWENTY FIVE
MEETING MOVED BY COMMISSIONER
MILLER SECONDED BY COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE.
>> ANY DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES ALL THOSE IN FAVOR
PLEASE SAY I OPPOSED THE MOTION
.
>> HIS NEXT UP OUR REPORTS TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND IN
COMMUNICATIONS COUNCIL MEMBER
IS RUNNING A LITTLE LATE SO WE
WILL START WITH THE MANAGER
REPORT FROM MR HUNTER.
>> YEAH, I JUST WANT TO THROW
YOUR ATTENTION TO ONE ITEM.
THERE WAS A SERIES OF DOCUMENTS
INCLUDED IN THE AGENDA PACKET
REGARDING TO THE UPCOMING
ACTION ON THE CAPITAL
IMPROVEMENTS PLAN AS A REMINDER
WE ARE PROVIDING THAT TO YOU
NOW.
HOWEVER IT WILL BE DISCUSSED AT
YOUR AUGUST TWELVE WORK SESSION
IF THERE ARE ANY PARTICULAR
QUESTIONS THAT YOU WOULD WANT
THAT WE WOULD LIKE TO MAKE SURE
WE ADDRESS PLEASE PROVIDE THOSE
TO US BY THE END OF THE DAY
TOMORROW WE'LL BE PLANNING THAT
WORK SESSION ON THE 12TH AND
THEN SUBSEQUENT ADOPTION AT THE
SEPTEMBER SECOND PLANNING
COMMISSION MEETING.
THANK YOU.
DO YOU HAVE ANY IN LIEU
COMMISSIONER FOR CONSUMER JUST
BEING HERE ANY TIDBITS TO SHARE
?
WELL, NO COMPANY MEETING WAS
HELD YESTERDAY BECAUSE IT'S
BEEN RESCHEDULED TILL AFTER
TODAY'S ELECTION SO I'LL JUST
LEAVE IT THERE.
>> COOL.
OK, ANY OTHER COMMISSIONER
OFFICERS OR COMMITTEE LIAISON
HAVE ANYTHING TO REPORT?
>> COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE?
JUST THAT THE ZIBA DID APPROVE
A REZO I DIDN'T WRITE THIS DOWN
FOR THE TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE
ANN ARBOR BRISLING SO WE WILL
CONTINUE THAT DISCUSSION HERE.
>> BUT OF VARIANCE SORRY I KNOW
I LIKE AS I'M TALKING AND SO RC
MET TWO WEEKS AGO COMMISSIONER
MILLS IS PULLING UP WHAT WE
TALKED ABOUT.
>> I KNOW WE TALKED ABOUT 80
ORDINANCE AND THINGS SIGNS BIG
SIGNS AND I CAN'T FIND MY
AGENDA FAST ENOUGH.
YEAH, THE ORDINANCE PROVISIONS
TO DISCUSS TOPICS LIKE ONE WAS
BY INSURGENTS COMMITTEE
RECOMMENDED THAT THOSE PROPOSED
CHANGES ADVANCE TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
IT'S ALL LIKELY SCHEDULING
THOSE IN SEPTEMBER.
THEY ALSO DISCUSSED DEVELOPER
SIGNAGE.
THIS CAME UP DURING THE CHANGES
TO THE COMMUNITY PARTICIPATION
ORDINANCE AND THEY ALSO
DISCUSSED A PROPOSED TEXT
AMENDMENT RECEIVED BY THE
GENERAL COMMUNITY LAND TRUST
AND PROVIDED SOME FEEDBACK ON
THAT.
WE WILL BE SCHEDULING THAT FOR
THE NINETEENTH PRESENTING BOTH
PROPOSED LANGUAGE FROM THE
APPLICANT AND SOME ALTERNATIVE
LANGUAGE THAT STAFFORDS POSING
AS AN OPTION FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THANK YOU.
ALSO NOTE WRITTEN
COMMUNICATIONS ARE INCLUDED IN
TODAY'S PACKET AND YOU ALSO
HAVE SOME PRINTOUTS IN FRONT
OF YOU, SOME THAT WERE RECEIVED
LAST MINUTE.
OK, WE ARE MOVING ON NOW TO
ITEM NUMBER SIX WHICH IS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES NOT
LISTED AS A PUBLIC HEARING WILL
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY.
>> PESTANA ON THE PHONE OR USE
THE RESIDENT FEATURE IN ZOOME
FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL 877 EIGHT
FIVE THREE FIVE FOUR SEVEN AND
ENTER A MEETING AT NINE SEVEN
SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE
TWO TWO SIX.
>> ANYONE PRESENT WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME COME ON UP
TO THE PODIUM GO AHEAD.
YEAH I'M FORTY YEARS ON AN
OBVIOUSLY ENROLLED AND I BACK
UP TO THE THE LOT HERE AND SO
I'VE LIVED THERE FOR FORTY
YEARS JUST THE RIGHT TIME NO.
>> SO YOU'LL COME BACK UP WHEN
WE GET TO ITEM TEN BE BIPOLAR.
NO NO NO YOU'RE GOOD YOU'RE
GOOD.
YEAH SO TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE
AN HOUR SELINE ROAD REZONING
THERE IS A PUBLIC HEARING FOR
AND THERE'S THANK YOU ON A.
SEVEN WOODLAWN AVENUE.
SO IF YOU'RE HERE TO SPEAK
ABOUT THOSE WE WILL CALL YOU
LATER.
>> ANY OTHER TOPICS COME ON UP
.
HELLO MY NAME'S WILLIE IF I
LIVE AT FIVE TWENTY EIGHT NORTH
ST. I WANT TO THANK THE
COMMISSION AND THE PLANNING
MANAGER FOR ALL THEIR HARD WORK
SO FAR MY COMMENT IS ABOUT SOME
OF THESE PERIPHERAL AH THREE IN
OUR FOUR AREAS SO THE
COMMISSION IS CURRENTLY
CONSIDERING AND I WOULD SUGGEST
PUTTING THOSE REMAINING PARCELS
IN TRANSITION RATHER THAN
CREATING A NEW SUBCATEGORY
WITHIN RESIDENTIAL AND THE
REASON IS I THINK TRANSITION
ALLOWS FOR MORE FLEXIBILITY FOR
COMMERCIAL USES AND IN A LOT
OF THESE AREAS I THINK IT'S
CURRENTLY VERY HARD TO WALK OR
EVEN DRIVE SHORT DISTANCES TO
ANY COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
I GREW UP IN PERIPHERAL ARTERY.
I DIDN'T CALL IT THAT GROWING
UP BUT I WAS NORTH OF THE
HIGHWAY AT NEWPORT NEWPORT WEST
AND MY PARENTS STILL LIVE THERE
AND WHEREVER MY DAD OR MY MOM
NEED FOOD MY DAD WILL DRIVE TO
MARKET OR KROGER EVERY SINGLE
TIME FOR ANYTHING AND I THINK A
LOT OF RESIDENTS WOULD REALLY
APPRECIATE IT IF THERE WAS
COMMERCIAL CLOSER TO WHERE THEY
LIVE IN THESE PERIPHERAL AREAS
.
SO THAT'S THE MAIN REASON I
THINK ALSO IF YOU INTRODUCE A
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY I DO SELL
CATEGORY I THINK THAT'S GOING
TO BE CONFUSING PERHAPS AND
ALSO THERE WILL THEN BE
RESIDENTIAL.
IT'S MORE THAN THREE STORIES
AND THE DEFINING PRINCIPLE SO
FAR HAS BEEN A THREE STORY.
SO I THINK THAT MIGHT CAUSE
CONTROVERSY AND CONFUSION AND
ALSO IF THERE'S GOING TO BE A
NEW RESIDENTIAL SUBCATEGORY
WITH CAPERING HEIGHT LIMITS
THEN I THINK YOU'RE GOING TO BE
REINVENTING THE TRANSITION
CATEGORY.
I DON'T SEE WHAT THE DIFFERENCE
EXCEPT MAYBE LESS COMMERCIAL
BUT I SEE THAT COMMERCIAL AS A
GOOD THING.
SO I THINK THERE'S A REALLY
SIMPLE WAY FORWARD TO THESE AS
A TRANSITION AND CONTINUE WITH
THOSE AND FINISH IT UP.
>> SO THAT'S A THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HI GARTH KOKANEE ONE THREE NINE
ASHLEY MISS DRIVE I WANT TO
TALK ABOUT THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION YOU'LL BE TALKING
ABOUT LATER THE TEXT OF THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION THAT STATES
THAT DUPLEXES AND TRIPLEX
SHOULD BE PROVIDED WIDESPREAD
OPPORTUNITY WHERE LARGER
BUILDING TYPOLOGIES ARE
AUTHORIZED ONLY ONE THAT WOULD
FIT IN EXISTING NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT.
SEVERAL COUNCIL MEMBERS
DESCRIBE THIS AS A BASELINE NOT
A CAP AND THE TEXT OF THE
RESOLUTION AGREES TO SET
TRIPLEX MAXIMUM WOULD GO
AGAINST THESE STATEMENTS FOR
STANDARDS CAN ALLOW FOR AN
APEXES TO FIT AN EXISTING
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT EVEN IN
LOW RISE RESIDENTIAL
NEIGHBORHOODS.
AT THE CITY COUNCIL MEETING WE
SHARE PHOTOS OF EXAMPLE
APARTMENT BUILDINGS ADJACENT TO
SINGLE FAMILY HOMES AND SHOWED
THAT SETBACKS AND HEIGHT LIMITS
CAN PRODUCE ABUNDANT HOUSING
WITHOUT FEAR OF SHADOWS AND
OVERWHELMING STRUCTURES.
SOME OF OUR STRONGEST
DETRACTORS HAD THIS TO SAY
ONLINE QUOTE OF COURSE THEY
USED EXAMPLES OF THREE STOREY
BUILDINGS SHOWING FLAT ROOFS
ENORMOUS ASPECTS COMPLETELY
BENIGN AND UNOBTRUSIVE WELL AND
THAT'S THE POINT.
WE WELCOME THESE KINDS
OF APARTMENTS BUT NOW WE ARE
MOVING TOWARDS A ZONING
CODE WHERE A FOUR THOUSAND
SQUARE FOOT MANSION HOUSING TWO
TO THREE PEOPLE FINE.
BUT IF THE SAME BUILDING AND
EXTERIOR HOUSED FOUR TO FIVE
APARTMENTS, THAT'S ILLEGAL.
THIS IS IN ORDER FOR SOME NOT
ANN ARBOR FOR ALL STAFF AND
COUNCIL POINT TO MINNEAPOLIS
TWENTY FORTY AS A MODEL AND
IT'S USED TO SHOW THAT TRIPLEX
IS IN R1 AN HOUR TO HOUR
SUFFICIENT.
HOWEVER, IF WE LOOK AT THEIR
ACTUAL LAND USE CATEGORIES
THERE ARE THREE LOW DENSITY
INTERIOR CATEGORIES INTERIOR
ONE IS THE ONLY CATEGORY IN THE
PLAN THAT LIMITS TO TRY PLEXUS
AND IS DEFINED THUSLY QUOTE THE
INTERIOR ONE DISTRICT IS
TYPICALLY APPLIED IN PARTS
OF THE CITY FARTHEST FROM
DOWNTOWN IN AREAS BETWEEN
TRANSIT ROUTES WHILE THE
INTERIOR THREE DISTRICT IS
TYPICALLY APPLIED IN PARTS
OF THE CITY CLOSEST TO DOWNTOWN
IN THE AREAS IN BETWEEN TRANSIT
ROUTES IN THE MINNEAPOLIS 2040
PLAN INTERIOR THREE HAS THIS
BUILT FORM GUIDANCE QUOTE NEW
AND REMODELED BUILDINGS IN THE
INTERIOR THREE DISTRICTS SHOULD
REFLECT A VARIETY OF BUILDING
TYPES ON BOTH SMALL AND
MODERATE SIZED LOTS INCLUDING
ON COMBINED LOTS BUILDING
HEIGHTS SHOULD BE ONE TO THREE
STORIES AND THEN THEY SHOW
IMAGES OF THREE STOREY
APARTMENT BUILDINGS, HIGHER
DENSITY NEAR OUR DOWNTOWN AND
JOB CENTERS AND LOWER DENSITY
AT THE OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY
ALONG WITH OUR HOUSING, CLIMATE
AND TRANSPORTATION GOALS.
PERHAPS WE SHOULD CONSIDER
MINNEAPOLIS'S LEAD IN SETTING
LIMITS AND NOT UNIT LIMITS IN
THE NEIGHBORHOODS CLOSEST TO
WHERE PEOPLE WORK.
THANK THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
KATHY GRISWOLD.
AT THE LAST COUNCIL MEETING I
WAS QUITE BRUTALLY REPRIMANDED
BY A COUNCIL MEMBER BECAUSE I
KEEP TALKING ABOUT SITE
DISTANCE AND THE NEED FOR SITE
DISTANCE MUST BE A REPUBLICAN
OR SOMETHING TO SAY THAT SO
ANYWAY I DECIDED TO MAKE
AMENDS.
I BROUGHT SOME VISIBILITY
COOKIES OVER HERE SO ANYONE WHO
WOULD LIKE A COOKIE SIMPLY
NEEDS TO AGREE THAT VISIBILITY
IN THE RIGHT OF WAY IS
IMPORTANT.
THREE AREAS OF ILLUMINATION WE
NEED POSITIVE CONTRAST LED
LIGHTING AT CROSSWALKS AND
INTERSECTIONS
WITH MARKED
CROSSWALKS, SIGHTLINES WITH
CONSISTENT ENGINEERING
STANDARDS AND BEST PRACTICES.
WE NEED LOCAL ORDINANCES AND
ONGOING OVERSIGHT BASED ON THE
SIX EASE AND SAFE SYSTEMS THIS
IS NOT RADICAL.
THIS IS WHAT MOST COMMUNITIES
DO, INCLUDING DETROIT.
I WANT TO THANK YOU FOR
MENTIONING AND WORKING WITH THE
COMMUNITY LAND TRUST.
I'M A SMALL INVESTOR THERE.
THIS WILL PROVIDE SOME OF THE
MISSING MIDDLE INCOME THAT WE
CREATE.
WE NEED SMALL STEP FORWARD BUT
A STEP FORWARD.
I'M NOT AGAINST DENSITY BUT WE
NEED A PROCESS IN PLACE BECAUSE
WE DO NOT HAVE A PROCESS IN
PLACE TO MANAGE OUR
INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE HAVE STREET LIGHTS THAT HAVE
BEEN OUT FOR MONTHS.
WE HAVE NO ONE THAT'S ACTUALLY
LOOKING FOR LIGHT OUTAGES IN
THE DOWNTOWN AREA WHEN A STREET
LIGHT OUTAGE IS REPORTED TO THE
CITY YOU GET A NICE POLITE
MESSAGE THAT SAYS WE'VE SENT IT
OVER TO DTV NOW THAT DIDN'T
USED TO BE THE CASE WHEN I WAS
ON COUNCIL WE REALLY NEED TO
TAKE RESPONSIBILITY BECAUSE IF
WE ARE GOING TO BECOME MORE
DENSE AND WE DEFINITELY SHOULD
WE NEED THE INFRASTRUCTURE
WHICH INCLUDES LIGHTS THAT WORK
TRAFFIC SIGNALS AT WORK AND WE
ALSO NEED TO BE MANAGING OUR
CONSTRUCTION SITE.
SO I'LL JUST GIVE YOU ONE
EXAMPLE ON BUSINESS US TWENTY
THREE NINETY FOUR WHICH IS
SHIRAN YOU'RE GOING EAST BOUND
TO GO IN AND THEY'VE GOT ONE
LANE CLOSED ON SOUTH SIDE AND
ON THE NORTH SIDE THEY'VE GOT
CONSTRUCTION THERE SO THEY'VE
GOT THESE LITTLE CONES IN THE
STREET AND YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO
KNOW AS YOU'RE GOING EASTBOUND
EVEN THE SIGN ABOVE SAYS LEFT
TURN ONLY THAT YOU'RE SUPPOSED
TO GO STRAIGHT AND IF YOU WANT
TO MAKE A LEFT HAND TURN YOU GO
OVER TO YELLOW LINE DOUBLE
YELLOW LINES.
YOU GOT THESE LITTLE CONES SO
THAT'S WHERE YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO
GO.
I WAS DOWN THERE VIDEOING TODAY
AND I SAW THE SAME THING HAPPEN
YESTERDAY.
THE PERSON WHO'S COMING UP GLEN
MAKES A WIDE TURN AND THE
PERSON MAKING A LEFT HAND TURN
THEY'RE BOTH IN THE SAME MAIN
FACE TO FACE NOW WE'VE GOT TO
DO BETTER THAN THAT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HI.
HI COMMISSIONERS.
I'M PETER HOUCK FROM YEOMAN
COURT IN THE LOTEN NEIGHBORHOOD
IN THE FOURTH WARD.
I'M ON THE TRANSPORTATION
COMMISSION TONIGHT THOUGH I'M
SPEAKING ONLY FOR MYSELF.
I DON'T THINK I NEED TO EXPLAIN
TO YOU THE EFFECT THAT HAVING
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
COMMUTING INTO THE CITY EVERY
DAY HAS ON THE CITY AND ON THE
SAFETY OF OUR STREETS.
BUT TONIGHT I WANT TO SHARE WHY
THAT'S PARTICULARLY URGENT AND
WHY WE NEED TO DO SOMETHING
ABOUT IT RIGHT AWAY AND IN THE
CONTEXT ALSO OF THIS LAND USE
PLAN THAT YOU'RE WORKING ON
ABOUT THREE YEARS AGO I STARTED
TRACKING IN AS IN AS REAL TIME
AS I COULD THE NUMBER
OF SERIOUS AND FATAL TRAFFIC
CRASHES THAT PEDESTRIANS AND
CYCLISTS SUSTAINED HERE IN THE
CITY.
THE DATA GETS RELEASED BY THE
STATE ONLY ONCE PER YEAR AND
THAT CAN BE A LAG OF MANY
MONTHS OR OVER A YEAR BEFORE WE
START TO SEE THAT DATA.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, DATA FROM
TWENTY TWENTY THREE IS THE
NEWEST DATA THAT WE CAN SEE IN
THE STATE SYSTEM NOW.
SO I'VE BEEN TRACKING THAT ON
MY BLOG CRASHES IN ANN ARBOR
AND WE CAN SEE A TREND THAT IS
REALLY DISTURBING TEN SERIOUS
AND FATAL PEDESTRIAN CRASHES IN
TWENTY TWENTY THREE TEN AGAIN
IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR AND NOW
TEN SERIOUS AND FATAL
PEDESTRIAN CRASHES IN TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE SO FAR SAYING THAT
ANOTHER WAY TWENTY TWENTY THREE
IT WAS OUR WORST YEAR SINCE
TWENTY FOURTEEN TWENTY TWENTY
FOUR IT WAS EQUALLY BAD IN
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE IS ALREADY
AS BAD AS THOSE TWO YEARS.
I'M SHARING THIS TREND TODAY IS
A REAL AND MEASURABLE EXAMPLE
OF THE HUMAN COST OF THIS LAND
USE POLICY THAT ENCOURAGES CAR
USE AND CAR COMMUTING INTO THE
CITY.
MORE CARS COMING IN MEANS MORE
RISK FOR PEDESTRIAN AND ALL
OF US A PEDESTRIAN AT ONE TIME
EVEN IF IT'S JUST WHEN WE'RE
WALKING BETWEEN OUR CAR AND OUR
DESTINATION.
SO WE NEED POLICIES AND PLANS
AND ZONING THAT WILL LET PEOPLE
LIVE NEAR WHERE THEY WORK AND
WHERE THEY GO TO SCHOOL SO THAT
THEY CAN TAKE THE BUS OR WALK
OR RIDE OR HAVE A SHORTER MORE
REASONABLE CAR TRIP TO GET
THERE.
AND WE NEED THE DENSITY HERE TO
SUPPORT BETTER AND MORE
FREQUENT TRANSIT OPTIONS.
SO WITH THAT URGENCY IN MIND,
I'M ASKING YOU TO PLEASE GIVE
US THE LAND USE POLICY THAT
WILL REDUCE AND OR HOPEFULLY
CURTAIL THE NUMBER OF CARS
COMMUTING INTO THE CITY EVERY
DAY AND DO NOT COMPROMISE DO
NOT COMPROMISE IN A WAY THAT
WILL CONTINUE TO ENCOURAGE MORE
COMMUTING AND LESS PEOPLE WHO
WORK IN THE CITY LIVING IN THE
CITY.
THIS IS HOW WE NEED YOU TO
CONTRIBUTE TO SAFER STREETS IN
ANN ARBOR.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
HELLO MY NAME IS JEFF CROCKET.
MY WIFE AND I LIVE AT FIVE OR
SIX EAST KINGSLY AND WE HAVE
THREE CONCERNS ABOUT THE
CURRENT VERSION OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
I WILL ADDRESS TWO OF THESE
CONCERNS TONIGHT.
THE OTHER CONCERN WAS EXPRESSED
IN AN EMAIL FIRST WITHOUT ANY
ENGAGEMENT WITH THE OLD FOURTH
WARD ASSOCIATION, THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT
HAS BEEN DESIGNATED A
TRANSITION DISTRICT DESPITE THE
FACT THAT OUR NEIGHBORHOOD IS
ALREADY THE DENSEST IN THE CITY
AND HAS STEADILY INCREASED IN
DENSITY AS A RESULT
OF MANAGEMENT COMPANIES
RESTRUCTURING THE INTERIORS TO
ADD OCCUPANCY WHICH IS NOT
RESTRICTED BY THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION ORDINANCE
ALSO NONCONTRIBUTING HOUSES CAN
BE REPLACED WITH MULTIUNIT
DWELLINGS AS OCCURRED FIVE
THIRTY NORTH DIVISION.
I ENCOURAGE YOU ALL TO TAKE A
LOOK AT THAT SINGLE FAMILY
OWNERSHIP HAS DECLINED MULTIPLE
MULTIPLE MULTI UNIT DWELLINGS
HAVE INCREASED AND CONSEQUENTLY
THE CURRENT ZONING CATEGORY IS
MORE THAN SUFFICIENT TO REACH
THE CLUB'S GOAL OF INCREASED
DENSITY.
SECONDLY, ON JULY THE FIFTEENTH
THE PLANNING COMMISSION VOTED
TO CHANGE THE FIRST SENTENCE
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
LANGUAGE ON PAGE SIXTY TO READ
THE PLAN TAKES NO POSITION ON
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
HOWEVER DRAFT TO THE CLUB DOES
NOT CONTAIN THE LANGUAGE.
SO IN PREPARATION FOR THIS
MEETING THE PUBLIC HAS NO WAY
TO TELL EXACTLY WHAT THE
CURRENT VERSION IS.
STILL THE SAME STATEMENT MAKES
NO SENSE BY VERY NATURE A CLUB
IS OBLIGATED TO MAKE STATEMENTS
ON LAND USE, NOT AVOID THEM.
HISTORIC DISTRICTS HAVE HAD
OVERWHELMING LOCAL SUPPORT
SINCE THEIR FORMATION IN THE
NINETEEN EIGHTIES WELL AFTER
RACIAL EXCLUSION ON DEEDS WAS
INVALIDATED BY THE FAIR HOUSING
ACT OF NINETEEN SIXTY EIGHT.
IN FACT THE ABSENCE OF AN
HISTORIC DISTRICT ON FOURTH AND
FIFTH BOTH HISTORICALLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD IN A HISTORICALLY
BLACK NEIGHBORHOOD MEANS THAT
HISTORIC HOMES IN THIS AREA CAN
BE DEMOLISHED.
WHERE IS THE EQUITY IN THAT?
PLEASE CONSIDER THE FOLLOWING
HISTORIC PRESERVATION STATEMENT
PAGE SIXTY HISTORIC DISTRICT
BOUNDARIES WILL BE MAINTAINED
AND DEVELOPMENT WILL CONTINUE
TO ADHERE TO THE EXISTING
STANDARDS AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
APPROVED THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION, THE SIXTY OF THE
CITY'S FIFTEEN HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ARE LEGALLY PROTECTED
WITH THE PURPOSE OF PRESERVING
THE CITY'S BUILDINGS AND PLACES
OF CULTURAL AND HISTORIC
SIGNIFICANCE FOR FUTURE
GENERATIONS AND OUTCOME
OF DECADES OF LEGISLATIVE
ACTIONS BY THE CITY TO LEARN
MORE ABOUT HISTORIC DISTRICTS
AND ARNAB OR TAKE THE SMART
TOURS AND THE HARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY WEBSITE AND VISIT IN
ARBOR'S BICENTENNIAL WEBSITE.
THIS STATEMENT DESCRIBES THE
LAND USE IN HISTORIC DISTRICTS
,ACKNOWLEDGES THE HISTORIC
DISTRICT COMMISSION WHICH WAS
IGNORED IN THAT ONE BLAND
STATEMENT AND PROVIDES LINKS TO
AN URBAN PRESERVATION AND
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCE.
IT IS SHORT, STRAIGHTFORWARD
AND APPROPRIATE.
I ENCOURAGE YOU TO PAUSE THE
PLAN UNTIL ADJUSTMENTS ARE MADE
TO THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
DESIGNATION IN HISTORIC
DISTRICT LANGUAGE ON PAGE
SIXTY.
THANK YOU.
THANK
HI MY NAME IS CHUCK
RHEEM.
>> I'M A CANDIDATE NEXT YEAR TO
TWENTY TWENTY SIX IN THE THIRD
WARD WHERE CITY COUNCIL IN
RESPONSE LARGELY TO THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT I
SUPPORT SIXTY PERCENT OF VERY
WELL THOUGHT THROUGH AND THEN
IT GOES RIGHT OFF THE CLIFF TO
BECOME TRULY AN ABOMINATION
THAT WILL DENIGRATE ANN ARBOR.
THE MAIN REASON I'M HERE THOUGH
IS TO TRY TO ENCOURAGE OTHER
PEOPLE TO RUN FOR OFFICE.
TWENTY TWENTY SIX IS GOING TO
BE VIRTUALLY OPEN AFTER THIS
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS VOTED ON
AND THERE'LL BE LOTS OF PEOPLE
WHO CAN WHO REALLY LOVE ANN
ARBOR WHO CAN COME IN HERE AND
WORK WITH IMPLEMENTING IT
BECAUSE THERE'S STILL LOTS
OF DANGEROUS LANGUAGE IN IT.
LIKE WHAT IF YOU WERE A TREE
AND YOU HEARD THE SENTENCE
PRIORITIZING HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT MAY REQUIRE AN
EASING OF CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS
AND CONSTRAINTS?
>> YEAH, WELL TRY WE WILL
REWRITE ZONING CODE TO REMOVE
BARRIERS TO HOUSING DEVELOPMENT
.
I GOT ONE THING TO TELL YOU AND
THAT IS IF YOU REDUCED BUILDING
SETBACKS IN YOUR NEW
RESIDENTIAL AREA YOU WILL HAVE
FIVE CANDIDATES RUNNING AGAINST
YOU, SAVE THREE CITY CANDIDATES
WHO WILL KNOCK OUT THIS COUNCIL
AND BE THE ONES TO IMPLEMENT
THIS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
BACK TO WHERE IT SHOULD BE.
I TRULY THIS FOR ME I MEAN THIS
FOR TREES REALLY THIS IS THE
LIFE AND DEATH QUESTION.
>> ARE YOU GOING TO TRY TO TAKE
THE LAND THAT IS RESERVED NOW
FOR TREES AND MAKE THAT LAND
FOR HOUSING?
IF THAT'S TRUE YOU WILL BE
REMOVED
THE VOTERS YOU'LL BE IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY EIGHT.
>> THEY WERE TRYING A LOT
OF EXCESS DEVELOPMENT.
WE GOT A SLATE OF PEOPLE
TOGETHER WHO HAD NEVER RUN FOR
ANY GOVERNMENT OFFICE BEFORE
AND PEOPLE KIND OF CHUCKLED WE
WON TWO TO ONE BECAUSE PEOPLE
ARE SO REALLY ATTACHED TO WHERE
THEY LIVE AND IF YOU START
ATTACKING WHERE PEOPLE LIVE AND
HOW THEY LIVE YOU'RE GOING TO
LOSE HIS CASTLE WILL LOSE WHEN
THE ESSENTIAL ELEMENTS IN THIS
PLAN ARE GOOD.
YES, WE NEED MORE DENSITY AND
WE NEED MORE FLEXIBILITY AND
RESIDENTIAL.
BUT YOU CAN'T THREATEN THE
TREES OR THE VOTERS OF TREE
CITY WILL COST ANYONE OUT WHO
DOES.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI, I'M TRACY SWINBURNE.
I LIVE ON POTTER AVENUE.
I WANT TO PROVIDE SOME COMMENTS
ABOUT WHAT THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN COULD LOOK LIKE, WHAT
OTHER COMMUNITIES EVOLVE IN
THEIR ASSESSMENTS AND WHY IT
COULD BE VALUABLE FOR US TO THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING PROCESS
COULD INCLUDE AN ANALYSIS AND
MODELING OF VARIOUS DENSITY AND
DEVELOPMENT SCENARIOS LIKE A
LOW MEDIUM HIGH SCENARIO,
DIFFERENT SPATIAL LOCATIONS.
IT WOULD ALLOW ILLUSTRATIONS
AND CALCULATIONS OF THE IMPACTS
ON TRAFFIC AND TRANSPORT MODE
SHIFT SCHOOLS, WATER, OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE CAPACITIES AND
THE RESULTING IMPACTS ON CITY
EXPENDITURE AND INCOME STREAMS
AND TAXES.
>> IT WOULD INFORM MEANINGFUL
DISCUSSIONS ON CHANGES IN TREE
CANOPY GREEN AND OPEN SPACES
QUALITY OF LIFE IMPACTS
POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE ON
RESIDENTS.
INSTEAD OF GUESSING AND
DISAGREEING ABOUT THESE IMPACTS
WE COULD HAVE SO MUCH MORE
INFORMATION AND ANALYSIS TO
HAVE A PRODUCTIVE DISCUSSION.
IT'S NOT EXPENSIVE OR UNUSUAL
TO DO AN ANALYSIS LIKE THIS.
I DON'T KNOW WHY IT HASN'T BEEN
UNDERTAKEN HERE BUT I HOPE IT'S
NOT TOO LATE.
THIS TYPE OF ANALYSIS SHOULD BE
IN EVERYONE'S INTEREST MAYBE
ESPECIALLY MOST FOR THOSE IN
FAVOR OF THE MOST DENSITY
WANTING TO MAKE SURE IT'S DONE
AS WELL AS IT CAN BE AND THAT
IT CREATES THE KIND OF CITY
SPACES THAT LAST FOR
GENERATIONS AND DON'T RESULT IN
UNAPPEALING SPACES THAT
ULTIMATELY LEAD TO DISUSE AND
INCREASE ALL IN THE FUTURE.
THERE COULD STILL BE TIME TO
PAUSE FOR SIX MONTHS AND DO
SOME OF THIS WORK AND HAVE AN
INFORMED CONSULTATION WITH THE
PUBLIC.
THIS OUGHT TO BE A WIN-WIN FOR
EVERYONE AND A WAY TO MAKE THIS
WHOLE PROCESS A LOT LESS
CONTENTIOUS.
>> WE'RE CURRENTLY MISSING THE
BASIC ANALYSIS AND INSIGHT FOR
A QUALITY DISCUSSION.
THE PLANNING PROCESS ITSELF, AS
YOU KNOW, IS AN IMPORTANT CHECK
AND BALANCE ON DEVELOPERS AND
YET THIS PLAN FAILS TO DO THAT.
DEVELOPERS HAVE THEIR OWN
INTERESTS AND IF GIVEN THE
GREEN LIGHT TO DO SO WE'LL
DEVELOP TO MAXIMIZE REVENUE FOR
INVESTORS.
PLANNING ACKNOWLEDGES THAT
COMMUNITIES HAVE DIFFERENT
INTERESTS THEIR HEART AND
CONSTRAINS DEVELOPERS TO CREATE
SPACES THAT ALSO CREATE QUALITY
OF PLACE, QUALITY OF LIFE THAT
COMMUNITIES SO DESPERATELY WANT
.
IF THE DEMAND FOR HOUSING IS SO
GREAT, THERE OUGHT TO BE SPACE
FOR CITY PLANNING PROCESS TO
SHAPE DEVELOPMENT.
BUT INSTEAD THIS PLAN OVERLY
BROADLY OPENS UP SWATHS OF THE
CITY FOR DEVELOPERS TO DECIDE
WHERE AND HOW MUCH GETS BUILT.
I CAN'T IMAGINE WHY THIS IS IN
OUR CITIES BEST INTERESTS.
THE PLAN CERTAINLY DOESN'T HAVE
TO BE THIS WAY AND IT HINTS
THAT EUROPEAN STYLE DENSITY AND
TRANSPORT AND MODE SHIFT BUT
THAT'S NOT HOW THEY DO IT IN
EUROPE.
I KNOW FIRSTHAND THEY DO IT BY
PAINSTAKING LONG PLANNING
PROCESSES.
THEY DON'T TURN THE KEYS OVER
TO DEVELOPERS AND LET THEM
DECIDE WHEN AND WHERE THINGS
HAPPEN.
THIS CURRENT PLAN IS LACKING IN
ASSESSMENT AND FOLLOWING ROBUST
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT.
IT'S WORTH TAKING A PAUSE AND
WHEN I TALK ABOUT LACKING IN
ASSESSMENT, HERE'S ONE EXAMPLE
.
THIS IS PAGE THIRTY SIX AND
THIRTY SEVEN FROM THE CURRENT
PLAN.
THIS ANSWERS THE QUESTION WHAT
IS THE RIGHT AMOUNT OF DENSITY?
AND I SUBMITTED FEEDBACK ABOUT
THIS THE FIRST DRAFT BUT STILL
IT'S THERE.
THIS IS JUST WRONG AND
MISLEADING IT TALKS ABOUT
SEVENTY NINE PERCENT
OF RESPONDENTS FAVORED BUILDING
UP A LOT IN CERTAIN AREAS
OF THE CITY AND POINTS TO THIS
MAP.
THIS MAP HAS DOTS FOR PEOPLE
WHO SAID BUILD UP A LOT BUT
THEY WERE GIVEN MULTIPLE DOTS
12 TO 15 ALSO YOU'LL NOTE THAT
IF YOU DIDN'T WANT TO SAY BUILD
UP A LITTLE OR MEDIUM OR A LOT,
YOU HAD DOTS SO YOUR VOICE
DIDN'T COUNT.
>> THE ANALYSIS IS GENERALLY
THE TIME IS UP BUT I ENCOURAGE
YOU TO IMPROVE THE NOW THANK
YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS TRICIA HACKNEY.
I'M FROM THE CROSSROADS ON
KELLOCK STREET IN WARD ONE.
CONGRATULATIONS ON VERDIAN
ESPECIALLY THE INCLUSION THE
UNITS THAT WERE AVALON ARE PART
OF A COMMUNITY AND THEY WERE
NOT BUILT SEPARATELY.
I DON'T HAVE ANY DATA.
THIS IS JUST MY OPINION BUT I
FEEL VERY STRONGLY THAT THAT'S
IMPORTANT IN TERMS OF BUILDING
COMMUNITY.
SO THAT'S GREAT.
THE ONLY LITTLE CAVEAT IS
TWELVE AND A HALF PERCENT WAS
AVALON AND I JUST WOULD LIKE TO
SEE A HIGHER PERCENTAGE WHEN
AND WHEREVER POSSIBLE.
AND SO MY QUESTION IS WHAT IS
THE PROJECTED PERCENTAGE
OF AVALON AND THE LAND TRUSTS
IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
OVERALL?
WHAT PERCENTAGE OF IT WILL BE
LAND TRUST IN AVALON WHICH IS
THE TRULY AFFORDABLE HOUSING
PART?
AND I WAS JUST CURIOUS WE HAVE
A TWENTY FIVE YEAR PLAN ESTATE
ASK FOR FIVE YEARS OR EVERY
FIFTH YEAR WE PLAN AND JUST THE
BREADTH OF THE OF THE DOCUMENT
AND EVERYTHING TELLS ME THAT
THEY'RE LOOKING TO INCREASE THE
POPULATION SIGNIFICANTLY TENS
OF THOUSANDS UP TO NINETY
THOUSAND OR MORE I'M NOT SURE I
DON'T THINK THEY'RE SURE YET.
BUT ANYWAY I WAS JUST WONDERING
WHAT DATA THEY WERE BASING THAT
ON BECAUSE OUR POPULATION IS
GOING DOWN THE RENTALS THERE'S
STILL ROOM IN RENTALS.
I DON'T KNOW WHERE THEY'RE
GETTING I WAS JUST WONDERING
WHERE THEY GOT THAT DATA IF
THERE IS ANY AND I JUST WANTED
IT TO COME UNDER THE DOME HERE
THAT SAID HE WANTED MORE
TRANSITION FOR THE ZONING.
WELL, NOT IF YOU LIVE IN A
TRANSITION DISTRICT IF THAT'S
YOUR HOUSE.
THE VALUE OF OUR CONDOS HAVE
ALREADY GONE DOWN JUST BECAUSE
THEY'RE YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT
THIS WE HAVE PEOPLE DRIVING
INTO THE PARKING.
I SAY WHERE'S THAT?
WHERE'S THE OFFICE?
WHERE'S THE I MEAN IT'S YEAH,
WE'RE ALREADY DENSE.
WE'RE ALREADY AFFORDABLE JUST
ABOUT IT CAN'T GET ANY MORE
AFFORDABLE.
WE'RE WALKABLE.
WE'RE EVERYTHING YOU SAY YOU
WANT AND LISA HAS HEARD ME ON
THIS TO HER CREDIT AND I
APPRECIATE THAT.
AND SO YOU KNOW, IT JUST
CONSUMPTION AND THANK YOU FOR
LISTENING.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS RICHARD DAWKINS.
I LIVE IN TWELVE FORTY THREE
MARLBORO IN WARD FOUR ON THE
SOUTH SIDE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
OF MAINLY SMALL SINGLE FAMILY
HOMES THIS AREA WILL BE A MAIN
TARGET OF YOUR PLAN AS YOU HAVE
DESIGNEE BOTH ENDS OF OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AS TRANSITION
ZONES IN YOUR PLAN MY HOUSE IS
IN THAT ARBITRARY SQUIGGLY LINE
DRAWN ON YOUR MAP BORDERING
SOUTH INDUSTRIAL FOR SOME
BIZARRE REASON YOUR PLAN ALLOWS
SHORT TERM AIR B AND B RENTALS
IN TRANSITION ZONES WHICH
ACTUALLY REMOVES HOUSING FROM
RESIDENTIAL USE.
I'VE ASKED SEVERAL TIMES HOW
YOU'RE GOING TO PROTECT PEOPLE
LIKE ME WHO HAVE INVESTED TENS
OF THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS IN
SOLAR AND THERE'S NOTHING IN
THAT PLAN AND I'M STILL WAITING
FOR A RESPONSE TO MY PLEA.
I HAVE TWENTY SOLAR PANELS AND
TWO POWER WALL BATTERIES PLUS A
HEAT PUMP WHICH MEANS THAT I AM
NEAR ZERO CARBON EMISSIONS AND
IN FACT ON SUNNY DAYS PROVIDE
EXCESS ENERGY FOR NEIGHBORING
HOUSES AND ARBER PROFESSES TO
BE TO WANT TO ZERO
CARBON EMISSIONS IN TEN YEARS.
HOW IS THAT EVER GOING TO
HAPPEN BY DISCOURAGING PEOPLE
LIKE ME TO GO SOLAR FOR FEAR
OF BEING SHADED BY A TALL
BUILDING.
I COULD HAVE EASILY 80 FOOT
APARTMENT OR A HOTEL NEXT TO ME
MAKING MY SOLAR PANELS USELESS.
I'M ONE OF THOSE CRITICAL
WORKERS THAT YOU PROFESS TO BE
CONCERNED ABOUT BEING ABLE TO
AFFORD TO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
I'M A CAREER TEACHER HAVING
TAUGHT BIOLOGY FOR THIRTY YEARS
AT A LOCAL HIGH SCHOOL ECOLOGY
HAS BEEN ONE OF MY LIFELONG
INTERESTS WHICH IS WHY I WENT
SOLAR.
I WANTED TO BE PART OF THE
SOLUTION, NOT THE PROBLEM.
SPEAKING OF THE PROBLEM, THOSE
TALL BUILDINGS THAT YOU'RE
PLANNING ENCOURAGES USING
CEMENT AS A MAJOR BUILDING
MATERIAL NOT ONLY IS IT THE
WORST CARBON PRODUCING BUILDING
MATERIAL, THERE IS BUTTER BUT
WILL RESULT IN HEAT ISLANDS IN
OUR NEIGHBORHOODS.
IT WILL ALSO REDUCE THE NUMBER
OF TREES THAT ABSORB CLIMATE
CHANGE RUNOFF AND COOL THE CITY
THROUGH THE PROCESS
OF TRANSPIRATION.
AS WATER EVAPORATES FROM THEIR
LEAVES, IT COOLS THE AIR JUST
LIKE SWEAT COOLS YOUR BODY.
WHEN I FIRST MOVED TO ANN ARBOR
I LIVED IN AN APARTMENT BUT
LIKE SO MANY OTHER AMERICANS
DREAMED OF OWNING MY OWN HOME
TO GIVE MY KIDS A PLACE TO PLAY
.
YOU CAN MAKE THAT POSSIBLE BY
SUBSIDIZING CRITICAL CITY
WORKERS AND BY FUNDING THE ANN
ARBOR COMMUNITY TRUST BY
SUBSIDIZE RENTS AND ENCOURAGING
CO-OPS INSTEAD OF PURSUING THIS
LIBERTARIAN IDEAL OF LETTING
THE MARKET DETERMINE WHAT THE
FUTURE BARRABA WILL LOOK LIKE.
AND I HOPE YOU STOP IGNORING MY
PLEA ABOUT ALL OF US THAT HAVE
GONE SOLAR.
>> WE NEED IT.
OUR PLANET DOES.
THANK YOU.
HELLO MY NAME IS GREG MONROE.
I LIVE SIXTY ONE BENDING ROAD
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I APPRECIATE YOU INTRODUCING
THE CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION
WITH REGARD TO THE UPDATES
OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IN
JULY AND COMMISSIONER ADAMS AND
CITY PLANNING STAFF I
APPRECIATE YOU INCORPORATE THEM
INTO THE NEXT DRAFT OF THE
PLAN.
THIS IS THE DUPLEX TRIPLEX
THREE STORIES CAP SO I
APPRECIATE THAT IT'S KIND
OF TOUGH FOR ME TO PINPOINT OR
PUT MY FINGER ON THE EXACT
PLACES AND LANGUAGE WHERE THIS
OCCURS IN THE THE MATERIAL
ATTACHED IN TONIGHT'S MEETING
ONLINE.
BUT I GUESS I WOULD JUST
GENERALLY ENCOURAGE CITY
PLANNING AND THE COMMISSION TO
ENSURE THAT THAT CITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION IS REFLECTED IN THE
NEXT DRAFT OF THE PLAN WITH
ROBUST LANGUAGE AND I'LL JUST
LEAVE IT AT THAT NEXT FOR
RESIDENTS WHO WISH TO FOLLOW
ALONG AND PROVIDE FEEDBACK ON
CITY PLANNING FOR FUTURE LAND
USE RECOMMENDATION IN THE AREAS
TO AMEND THESE ARE CURRENTLY I
THINK THERE ARE THREE IN OUR
OUR FOUR ZONE TRANSITION AREAS
.
SO I GUESS I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO
THAT MEMO WRITTEN BY CITY
PLANNING PLANNING MANAGERS
VENIT PARTICULAR AS IT RELATES
TO THOSE AREAS AND MY THOUGHTS
ARE AS FOLLOWS.
SO THESE AREAS SHOULD NOT BE
TRANSITION.
I AGREE AND I AM GRATEFUL THAT
THEY ARE BEING REVISITED.
MY CONCERN IS THAT OPTION A
WHICH PROPOSES TO EXPAND THE
TIER OF THE RESIDENTIAL AND USE
CATEGORY WITHOUT THOSE TIERS
POSES INTERPRETATION, RISK AND
POTENTIALLY INVITES OPEN ENDED
INTERPRETATION WHICH COULD
UNDERMINE THE INTENT OF THAT
JULY TWENTY TWENTY FIVE CITY
COUNCIL RESOLUTION AND THE THE
VALID AND NUMEROUS CONCERNS
VOICED BY MANY RESIDENTS AND MY
CONCERN WITH THAT OPTION
WITHOUT TEARS IS THAT IT HAS
THE POTENTIAL FOR FUTURE ZONING
OR DISPUTES.
SO I DON'T THINK THIS WAS THE
INTENT BUT WITHOUT CLEARLY
DEFINED LIMITS OR TIERS OPTION
A RISK OPENING THE DOOR TO
ZONING IN OUR ONE IN OUR TO
BEYOND THOSE THRESHOLDS
OUTLINED IN THE PLAN OF THE
RESOLUTION OR AT THE VERY LEAST
CREATING AMBIGUITY THAT MAY
LEAD TO CONFLICT OR CONFUSION.
SO TEARS ARE NEEDED AND THEY
MUST BE CLEAR AND ENFORCEABLE
IN MY OPINION.
SO I SUPPORT THE IDEA
OF INTRODUCING TIERS WITHIN
THAT CATEGORY AS A TOOL FOR
NUANCE AND I STRONGLY ADVOCATE
THAT THESE TIERS MUST BE
CLEARLY DEFINED, TRANSPARENTLY
MAPPED IN THE COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN AND ENFORCEABLE SO
AMBIGUITY WOULD ERODE PUBLIC
TRUST AND CREATE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR DEVELOPERS TO EXPLOIT
LOOPHOLES, LEAVING PLANNERS AND
RESIDENTS AT A DISADVANTAGE IN
INTERPRETING THAT APPLYING THE
RULES AND ENFORCING
ACCOUNTABILITY.
FINALLY I TAKE SPECIFIC ISSUE
AN OPTION WITH LANGUAGE THAT
SUGGEST ALLOWING NO UNIT COUNT
LIMITATIONS IN OUR THREE AND A
HALF HOUR FOR ZONED AREAS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT CURRENT
DEVELOPMENT BERLINS BELOW THESE
ESTABLISHED CAP WHICH PROVIDES
ROOM FOR GROWTH THE EXISTING
ZONING FRAMEWORK SHOULD BE
PRESERVED RESPECTED.
>> THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OH LET'S PUT IT
I THANK YOU FOR
LETTING ME SPEAK.
DO WE HAVE TO HAVE THIS
KEYBOARD.
>> OH I'M SORRY CAN I PUSH THIS
IN.
THANK YOU.
WELL THAT'S BETTER.
MY NAME IS DENHA BACKPACK.
I'M A RESIDENT OF WARD ONE.
I LIVE ON UPLINE DRIVE AND
WE'RE A VERY SMALL STREET
SITUATED YOU KNOW WHERE WE ARE.
I ACTUALLY WANT TO BEGIN WITH
GOVERNMENT BY CONSENT,
GOVERNMENT BY CONSENT.
IT'S ALSO KNOWN AS CONSENT
OF THE GOVERNED.
IT IS THE IDEA THAT A
GOVERNMENTAL INTIMACY AND RIGHT
TO RULE COMES FROM THE
AGREEMENT OF THE PEOPLE.
IT GOVERNS.
CITIZENS HAVE A SAY IN HOW THEY
ARE GOVERNED THROUGH VOTING OR
OTHER FORMS OF PARTICIPATION.
THE POWER OF THE GOVERNMENT IS
DERIVED FROM THE PEOPLE IT
SERVES YOUR LEGITIMACY IS
DETERMINED THROUGH OUR CONSENT.
OUR GOVERNMENT'S AUTHORITY IS
GRANTED BY THE PEOPLE I DO NOT
CONSENT TO THE NATIONAL CHAOS
GOING ON AND I'M AT EVERY
DEMONSTRATION I CAN BUT I DO
NOT CONSENT TO THIS LOCAL
OVERREACH.
A FEW PEOPLE CANNOT FORCE THEIR
IDEOLOGY ON OTHERS CITIZENS.
THIS IS A DRACONIAN VISION THAT
YOU ARE PUSHING.
SO FIRST I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT
SHORT TERM RENTALS BUT I DON'T
THINK I HAVE TIME.
I THINK THEY SHOULD BE.
THIS IS A LOW HANGING FRUIT IF
THERE IS A HOUSING CRISIS YOU
START PHASING THEM OUT.
YOU TELL THE DEVELOPERS ENOUGH
THERE IT'S HAPPENING ALL OVER
THE WORLD AND ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY AND ACTUALLY ALL OVER
MICHIGAN.
GIVE THEM A THREE YEAR PHASE
OUT AND CONVERT THAT TO MARKET
HOUSING THE LOW HANGING FRUIT
IT'S ALREADY BUILT.
AND SO THAT'S ENOUGH OF THAT.
BESIDES, WE DON'T NEED SOMEBODY
ELSE MENTIONED CORPORATE
HOUSING, BLACKSTONE AND THE
OTHER GROUPS.
THEY'VE MADE A FORTUNE.
I ALSO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK TO
THE SOLAR I HAVE INVESTED SOLAR
WE HAVE A LITTLE ONE AND A HALF
STOREY HOUSE.
YOU THROW THROUGH A TRANSITION
ZONE OVER MY TINY LITTLE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND ALL OF OUR
LITTLE HOUSES ARE NOW SUBJECT
TO EIGHT STOREY BUILDINGS CAN
BE RIGHT NEXT DOOR TO US.
I HAVE SOLAR WE HAVE THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS AND SOLAR.
DO YOU THINK I WANT TO EIGHT
STORY BUILDINGS NEXT TO ME
BECAUSE YOU THREW THAT OVER
WITHOUT EVER COMING INTO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD AND TALKING TO US.
THAT'S RIDICULOUS.
NOW I THINK I WANTED TO SEE
SOMETHING ACTUALLY FUNNY AND
NICE BUT SO THIS VERY TENSE ALL
THE TIME AND EVERYBODY'S SO
UPSET AND ALL I COULD THINK WAS
LIKE THE GRANDFATHER IN TRUCK
SOMEBODY TELL A JOKE, YOU KNOW?
SO I WANTED TO TALK ABOUT THE
TREES SO I WENT TO THE WEBSITE
OF THE CITY AND I WENT TO THE
CITY MAPS AND I THOUGHT WELL
MAYBE THEY'RE STILL ON THE NEW
MAP.
MAYBE THEY'RE STILL A TREE.
WELL, ACTUALLY YOU CAN SEE ON
THE ROADS THERE'S NO TREE ON
THE NEW MAP.
SO THE FIRST THE IF YOU LOOK
DOWN AT THE MAP IT'S RIGHT DOWN
THERE.
THE MAPS I'M SORRY THE FLAGS
THE FIRST TWO THE OFFICIAL FLAG
VISIT IS THE SECOND ONE
AUTHENTIC ANN ARBOR.
I BELIEVE THAT THESE WERE
SINCERE SUBMITTALS AND THEY'RE
KIND OF INTERESTING THE OTHER
TWO ROWS ANYWAYS THANK LEAVE IT
UP THERE.
>> WE CAN LOOK AT IT.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING, COMMISSIONER
CARQUEST THIRTY FIVE OH FIVE
CHARTER PLACE.
THANKS FOR YOUR HARD WORK PLAN
AND ALL THE OTHER LONG HOURS I
LOOK FORWARD TO SEEING THE MAP
COMPLETED SOON.
A COUPLE OF COMMENTS ONE ABOUT
TRANSITION I HOPE YOU STAY THE
COURSE AND CONTINUE TO PUT AS
MANY PARCELS AS POSSIBLE INTO
TRANSITION TRANSITION BY
DEFINITION TRANSITION HAS TO
TAPER TO THREE STORIES THAT'S
CURRENTLY IN THE PLAN WHICH I
ASSUME YOU INTEND THAT TO BE
THE CASE.
SO ESPECIALLY FOR SOME OF THE
SMALLER TRANSITION AREAS, THEY
MAY NOT EVEN BE AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR IT TO TAPER ANY TALLER THAN
THAT.
SO THAT WILL BECOME THE GENTLE
DENSITY THAT SEEMS TO BE THE
GOAL OF MANY PEOPLE.
IT WILL ALLOW CO-OPS AND A LOT
MORE FLEXIBLE HOUSING TYPES
THAT CLEARLY IS BEING STEERED
AWAY FROM THE RESIDENTIAL
CATEGORY.
ONE EXAMPLES WOULD BE GARDENS.
THESE COMMUNITIES SHOULD BE
ALLOWED TO DENSIFY SHOULD THEY
CHOOSE TO CONDO COMMUNITY IN
SELF MANAGED COMMUNITIES AND
MANAGEMENT.
YOU KNOW, PROFESSIONALLY
MANAGED COMMUNITIES DON'T TO
TAKE ADVANTAGE OF THIS BUT WHEN
THE OWNERSHIP DECIDES THAT
THAT'S A GOOD IDEA THEY SHOULD
BE GIVEN THAT FLEXIBILITY
REGARDING HUD, I JUST ASK YOU
TO CONSIDER EXPANDING.
I APPRECIATE THAT HUUB IS
LARGER THAN THE ONE THAT'S A
STAKE AND EISENHAUER CURRENTLY.
BUT I'M CURIOUS AS TO WHY IT
DIDN'T GO UPSTATE ALL THE WAY
TO THE RAILROAD TRACKS AND SAID
KIND OF STOPS SEEMINGLY
ARBITRARILY SOUTH OF THERE.
I'D ALSO LIKE YOU TO CONSIDER
EXPANDING EXPANDING THE HUB
DISTRICT TO MAIDEN LANE CLOSE
TO THE HOSPITAL DEPOT STREET
CLOSE TO THE TRAIN STATION AND
THE HOSPITAL AND I'D ALSO
ENCOURAGE LOOK AT ANN ARBOR
GOLF AN OUTING AS A PRIVATE
PRIVATE PROPERTY OWNER THAT
COULD BE PUT INTO A HUB AS WELL
.
AND LASTLY, I'D JUST LIKE TO
ECHO THE CONCERN ABOUT
INTRODUCING FORMAL DIVISIONS AT
THIS POINT WITHIN RESIDENTIAL
OR TRANSITION.
I AGREE WITH THE PREVIOUS
COMMENTER THAT THIS WILL LEAD
TO CONFUSION AND DIVISIVENESS
AND ULTIMATELY INEQUITIES AND
WE CAN SEE THAT THIS IS JUST
THE PROSPECT OF INTRODUCING
ADDITIONAL TIERS RIGHT NOW IS
CAUSING CONFUSION.
>> GREAT.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU, MAX.
CARE ABOUT TWENTY SEVENTEEN
FAIR STREET.
I'M ASKING YOU TO CATEGORIZE
ALL EXISTING OUR THREE AND OUR
FOUR PARCELS AS TRANSITION A
CATEGORY WHICH HAS THAT ALREADY
INCLUDES A THREE STOREY HEIGHT
LIMIT NEXT TO RESIDENTIAL
AREAS.
TONIGHT'S DISCUSSION INCLUDES A
MEMO FROM STAFF.
IT SUGGESTS MAKING MORE LAND
USE CATEGORIES TO ADDRESS THE
INFLEXIBLE AND SHORTSIGHTED
PROBLEMS THE CITY COUNCIL HAS
PUSHED UPON YOU.
SOME OF THE SPECIFIC
NEIGHBORHOODS MENTIONED TO
INCLUDE MY NEIGHBORHOOD WITH
WESTWOOD APARTMENTS THEN THE
SENIOR LIVING CENTER MY
NEIGHBORHOOD IS FULL OF PEOPLE
WALKING THEIR DOGS AND PARENTS
BIKING WITH THEIR KIDS AND
FOLKS TENDING TO THE COMMUNITY
GARDEN AND THERE'S PLENTY
OF SPACE FOR MORE NEIGHBORS AND
MIDDLE HOUSING OPTIONS.
THIS IS A COMPREHENSIVE PLAN,
NOT A SITE PLAN.
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE VISIONARY.
I'M NOT A UNIQUE PARCEL BY
PARCEL ANALYSIS.
WHY ARE WE REPEATING THE
MISTAKES OF THE PAST AND
DEFINING A MILLION
INCREMENTALLY DIFFERENT ZONING
CATEGORIES IN AN EFFORT TO STOP
ANY LONG TERM CHANGE?
>> NO NEW BUILDING IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THE
NEIGHBORHOOD CONTEXT UNTIL IT
IS BUILT.
THE NORTH SIDE OF MY STREET IS
ENTIRELY SINGLE STORY RANCHES.
AT SOME POINT SOMEBODY ADDED A
SECOND STOREY ADDITION OVER
THEIR GARAGE.
I'M SURE FOLKS IN THE PAST
WOULD HAVE
SAID THAT'S NOT
FITTING FOR THE NEIGHBORHOOD
NOW THAT IT'S BUILT IT'S JUST
ANOTHER FEATURE OF A FLEXIBLE
NEIGHBORHOOD AND A SPACE THAT
LIKELY HOUSES SOMEONE'S PARENT
OR CHILD OR HOME OFFICE.
AND DESPITE THEIR BEST EFFORTS
TONIGHT, DTG WASN'T ABLE TO
PASS THE PLAN AFTER THE PLAN IS
PASSED, YOU WILL HAVE YEARS
WORTH OF REZONING HEARINGS
AHEAD OF YOU.
I WOULD LOVE FOR YOU TO START
WITH THE RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY.
MY AUNT HAS WAITED FIFTEEN
YEARS FOR A GREEN CARD AND
MAYBE IN THE NEXT FEW YEARS
SHE'LL BE ABLE TO GET ONE AND I
WOULD LOVE TO BE ABLE TO BUILD
A SECOND UNIT ATTACHED TO MY
HOME IN ORDER TO MAKE SPACE FOR
HER.
WITH THAT SAID, OUR HOUSING
CRISIS IS ACUTE AND WILL BE
MOST IMPORTANT TO FOCUS ON
RAPIDLY UP ZONING OUR HUB AND
TRANSITION DISTRICTS.
>> THE NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN
SOUTH YOU HAVE UNLOCKED TENS
OF MILLIONS OF DOLLARS WORTH
OF INCOME SUBSIDIZED AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN THE CITY JUST LIKE
THE HUNDRED PERCENT AFFORDABLE
WHY LAW DEVELOPMENT AND MORE
TOWERS.
I LOOK FORWARD TO RAPIDLY
MOVING TOWARDS ADDRESSING THE
HOUSING CRISIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
>> HELLO I'M SHANNON LIOW TWO
EIGHT SEVEN ZERO OAKDALE DRIVE
AND I WANT TO TALK ABOUT THE
PROBLEM FIGURING OUT WHAT TO DO
WITH OUR THREE OR FOUR WHETHER
WE SHOULD PUT THAT INTO
RESIDENTIAL TRANSITION AND
ACTUALLY ONE TAKE A STEP BACK
AND THINK ABOUT THE FRAMEWORK
THAT WE CURRENTLY HAVE FOR THE
LAND USE CATEGORIES.
WE HAVE RESIDENTIAL, WE HAVE
TRANSITIONING OF HUB AND THERE
ARE TWO WAYS TO THINK ABOUT IT.
YOU CAN THINK ABOUT IT DISCRETE
CATEGORIES, RIGHT?
LIKE SOMETHING WILL CLEARLY
FALL INTO RESIDENTIAL A VERY
SPECIFIC WAY OR TRANSITION OR
HUB AND YOU HAVE LIKE THESE
LIKE TARGET HEIGHTS MAYBE FOR
THEM YOU CAN ALSO THINK OF AS A
CONTINUUM YOU HAVE THINGS THAT
ARE VERY MUCH SINGLE FAMILY,
MAYBE SOME LIKE A MISSING
MIDDLE AND YOU KNOW THERE'S
THERE IS A HUGE RANGE AND I
THINK WE ARE BEST SUITED FOR
THAT LATTER FOR THIS CONTINUOUS
SPACE WHERE I MEAN AS WE HAVE
IT RIGHT NOW BETWEEN
RESIDENTIAL AND TRANSITION, THE
UPPER END OF RESIDENTIAL AND
THE LOWER END OF TRANSITION ARE
BASICALLY IDENTICAL IN FORM BUT
IN USE IT CAN BE DIFFERENT.
WE HAVE MORE LENIENCY FOR THE
COMMERCIAL, MORE ABILITY TO YOU
KNOW, IF I LIVE IN TRANSITION I
CAN PROBABLY FIND MORE OPTIONS
.
YOU GET GROCERIES, YOU GET THE
DAILY NEEDS.
AND SO I THINK THINKING OF AS
THIS CONTINUUM AND NOT
NECESSARILY CHOPPING THEM UP
INTO AS MANY DISCRETE
CATEGORIES AS WE CAN GIVES US
THE FLEXIBILITY AND THE ABILITY
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT OUR
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE AND HOW THEY
CAN GROW OVER TIME.
THIS IS BUILT IN THROUGH
TAPERING, BUILT IN THROUGH
PERFORMANCE OR NUISANCE
REQUIREMENTS.
I DON'T THINK WE ARE BEST IT'S
NOT A GOOD USE OF OUR TIME TO
TAKE EVERY SINGLE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND FIGURE OUT WHERE IT BELONGS
AND TO YOU KNOW, HOW MANY
INDIVIDUAL SUBCATEGORIES IT'S
GOING TO TAKE A LOT OF TIME ON
YOUR AND IT'S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF OVERHEAD FOR INDIVIDUAL
DEVELOPERS.
SMALL DEVELOPERS, LOCAL
BUSINESSES TO FIGURE OUT HOW
THEY FIT INTO THIS CONTEXT.
SO I REALLY WANNA ENCOURAGE YOU
TO KEEP IT SIMPLE.
WE HAVE THIS EXISTING FRAMEWORK
THAT REALLY COULD WORK FOR US
AND THAT'S BENEFITS EVERYONE IF
WE THINK OF IT AS NOT
CONSIDERING LABELS.
BUT THIS THIS ROADMAP THAT WE
CAN DREAM BIG FOR A FUTURE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
COUNCIL ROSMUS
SEVENTEEN SIX SIXTY SEVEN
CHARLETON OF FOOTBOARD ECHO
SOME OF THE OTHER SIDE SHOULD
BE EXPANDING OUR HOME
TRANSITION ALREADY HAS THE
TRANSITION ALREADY HAS
TRANSITIONED IN PICKING UP
AGAINST RESIDENTIAL BUT MAKE
MORE TRANSITION IF WE'RE GOING
TO CONSTRAIN RESIDENTIAL WHAT
RESIDENTIAL CAN BE WE SHOULD BE
ENCOURAGING DEVELOPERS TO BUILD
INNER CITY HOUSING IS GOING TO
GET BUILT CLEARCUTTING HUNDREDS
OF ACRES IN THE TOWNSHIP
DOESN'T SAVE THE TREES.
MARGINS ARE REALLY SMALL AND
DEVELOPMENT AND CITIES WE
ALREADY HAVE A HORRENDOUS
PROCESS.
I KNOW PEOPLE THAT TRY AND
DEVELOP HERE AND JUST DON'T
BECAUSE IT'S TOO HARD.
LET'S MAKE IT EASIER.
BUT THE VISIONARY PLAN IT'S OK
TO BE VAGUE JUST DON'T
CONSTRAIN US MORE THAN WE NEED
TO BE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI THERE.
I'M IRMA MYARD TWO EIGHT ZERO
NINE BRACKMAN BOULEVARD.
TONIGHT I'D LIKE TO TALK TO YOU
ABOUT A PILLAR OF THE DRAFT
PLAN SUSTAINABILITY.
THE DRAFT PLAN DOESN'T REALLY
DEFINE THAT SUSTAINABILITY.
IT'S PRESENTED IN VERY BROAD
TERMS OF VALUE A GOAL STATING
WE ARE COMMITTED TO PROMOTING
BALANCED BETWEEN ALL OF OUR
NATURAL AND HUMAN SYSTEMS TO
SUPPORT A HEALTHY AND
BIODIVERSE ECOSYSTEM TODAY AND
INTO THE FUTURE.
IT'S GREAT BUT CARE MUST BE
TAKEN SO THE PLAN DOESN'T
THWART THIS PLEDGE AND DISRUPT
THE BALANCE IT CLAIMS TO SEEK.
WE NEED A PLAN THAT ALLOWS
GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT AND AT
THE SAME TIME PROTECTS OUR
NATURAL FEATURES URBAN CANOPY
AND BIODIVERSITY.
THE NATURAL FEATURES MASTER
PLAN ENUMERATES VITAL
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTIONS.
THESE SHOULD BE INCORPORATED
INTO THE NEW LAND USE PLAN IN
ITS PRESENT FORM.
THE PLAN PUTS CLIMATE AND
ENVIRONMENTAL GOALS AT RISK BY
PUTTING A HIGHER PRIORITY ON
BUILDING DEREGULATION TO FAVOR
DEVELOPMENT.
THE RESULT STANDS TO BE THE
LOSS OF EVER DIMINISHING GREEN
SPACE AND NATURAL FEATURES THE
LUNGS OF A HEALTHY CITY AND THE
INCREASE OF CONGESTION AND
GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS BEFORE THE
IDEALIZED STATE OF AN ALL
ELECTRIC FUTURE COULD
REALISTICALLY BE ACHIEVED.
INDEED, THE DRAFT PLAN PROPOSES
LEVERAGING PUBLICLY OWNED LAND
THAT IS POTENTIALLY BUILDING ON
GREEN SPACE AND PARKLAND NOT
JUST PARKING LOTS AND QUOTE
OFFSETTING CITY SUSTAINABILITY
REQUIREMENTS IN ORDER TO
INCREASE AFFORDABLE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT.
A CITY WITHIN OUR FISCAL AND
INTELLECTUAL RESOURCES SURELY
SHOULD BE ABLE TO PROVIDE BADLY
NEEDED ATTAINABLE HOUSING WHILE
DEFENDING GREEN SPACE FROM
SPECULATIVE ENCROACHMENT.
WE KNOW THAT DEMOLISHING
BUILDINGS INCREASE THE
PROJECT'S CARBON FOOTPRINT
TALLER BUILDINGS CAN OVERSHADOW
SOLAR PANELS AND GARDENS,
REDUCING ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND
LIVABILITY.
HIGH DENSITY DEVELOPMENT ALONG
TRANSIT ZONES AND HUBS WILL
WORSEN HEAT ISLANDS.
WE NEED AN HONEST ASSESSMENT
OF HOW DEREGULATED MARKET
DRIVEN DENSITY LEADS TO LOSS
GREEN SPACE MORE RUNOFF
FLOODING POLLUTED WATERWAYS
WITHOUT CLEAR INFRASTRUCTURE
COST PROJECTIONS TO ADDRESS
THESE IMPACTS, THE PLAN REMAINS
INCOMPLETE.
BUT TOGETHER WITH GENUINE
PARTICIPATION BY RESIDENTS AT A
NEIGHBORHOOD LEVEL WE CAN
UNDERSTAND AND WEIGH TRADEOFFS
THAT WILL BE NEEDED IN THE
YEARS AHEAD.
WE CAN LEARN TOGETHER AND PLAN
FOR GROWTH AS WELL AS
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION.
NOW THE DRAFT PLAN DOESN'T DO
ENOUGH FOR GENUINE CLIMATE
SUSTAINABILITY BY COMING
TOGETHER, RESIDENTS CAN MAKE
THIS HAPPEN BECAUSE THE PLAN SO
INCLUSIVE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS
CAN DELIVER A PATH FORWARD THAT
WORKS FOR EVERYONE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
GOOD EVENING.
KEY FROM THE FIFTH WARD.
I HAD ONE SPECIFIC POINT AND
THEN I HAVE A COUPLE OF BIG
PICTURE COMMENTS.
THE SPECIFIC POINT IS THAT I'VE
HEARD JUST A COUPLE OF SPEAKERS
GO AND OTHER COMMENT ABOUT HOW
THE NEW BUILDING WILL MAKE THE
AFFORDABLE HOUSING VILLAGE
REALLY WORK IN IT.
I HOPE THAT NO LANGUAGE GETS IN
THE PLAN ABOUT THE IF YOU THINK
ABOUT IT THAT SIMPLE MATH IT'S
ZERO POINT ZERO ZERO ZERO FIVE
ONE MILL HALF VALUE.
THAT MEANS IT WOULD FOR EVERY
UNIT THAT'S BUILT THAT'S NEW IT
WOULD TAKE TWO THOUSAND YEARS
FOR THAT MILLAGE TO PRODUCE ONE
UNIT A TWO HUNDRED UNIT
DEVELOPMENT WILL PRODUCE ONE
UNIT IN A DECADE THAT IT'S
MINUSCULE IT SHOULDN'T EVEN BE
DISCUSSED.
IT'S NOT BIG ENOUGH TO EVEN
MATTER.
AND ON THE BIG PICTURE I WANT
TO JUST HAVE EVERYBODY STEP
BACK A MINUTE AND THINK HOW DID
WE GET HERE?
AND THE INITIAL PART OF THIS
WAS TO HAVE A PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
WHERE YOU HAD ONE VIEW AND THE
PUBLIC WAS TOLD ANOTHER VIEW
THEN THERE WERE NO NO
NEIGHBORHOOD DISCUSSIONS AT ALL
THAT WERE SCIENTIFIC IN ANY WAY
WHERE YOU COULD ACTUALLY TELL
WHAT YOUR BASE WANTED AND WHAT
THE WHAT THE OTHER GENERAL
PUBLIC THAT MAYBE WASN'T AS
INFORMED ON IT.
AND SO NOW YOU END UP WITH THIS
CONTENTIOUS BATTLE AND YOU CAN
YOU CAN PUSH THROUGH WHAT YOU
WANT AND THEN COUNCIL CAN
DECIDE TO RISK WHETHER THEY
WANT TO RUN ON THAT OR WHETHER
THEY WHETHER THEY WANT TO
REJECT IT AND START ALL OVER.
AND I WOULD POSTULATE THAT IT
WOULD MAKE A LOT MORE SENSE TO
GO BACK TO NEIGHBORHOODS AND
ACTUALLY SIT AT MEETINGS AND
LOOK AT LOOK AT BUILDINGS IN
THAT NEIGHBORHOOD LIKE NINE FOR
LINCOLN OR THE HOUSE THAT'S THE
HOUSES THAT ARE IN SPRING AND
HISCOCK AND TALK TO NEIGHBORS
AND SAY IS THAT OK WITH YOU AND
FIGURE OUT IF YOU CAN GET A
CONSENSUS OTHERWISE THIS IS
REALLY GOING IN A PLACE WHERE
WHERE NO ONE WANTS IT TO GO AND
YOU DON'T THE BASE YOUR BASE
DOESN'T LIKE THAT ANYMORE.
THAT WAS THE PLAN.
PEOPLE DON'T LIKE IT.
YOU'RE STUCK IN THE MIDDLE BUT
THAT'S BECAUSE YOU WENT ABOUT
IT THE WRONG WAY IN THE FIRST
PLACE AND I WOULD ALSO STRONGLY
ENCOURAGE YOU TO LISTEN TO
PEOPLE WITH DETAILED KNOWLEDGE
PEOPLE LIKE TOM STALBERG WHO
ACTUALLY LOOK AT THE DETAILS
AND PEOPLE KEEP TELLING THEM
HE'S WRONG.
HE'S WRONG, HE'S WRONG AND THEN
HE GETS INFORMATION FROM MR.
LEONARD OR PLANNING STAFF AND
THEY SAY OH YEAH, YOU'RE RIGHT.
GET YOUR FACTS STRAIGHT BEFORE
YOU START PUSHING PEOPLE AROUND
BY SAYING THEY'RE WRONG.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI, I'M KATHY WHITTIER COURT.
I'M REALLY EXCITED ABOUT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I'M LOOKING FORWARD TO ALL THE
THINGS THAT YOU GUYS HAVE BEEN
THINKING ABOUT.
I'VE BEEN EXCITED SINCE LAST
YEAR WHEN YOU GUYS DID
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS IN THE
PUBLIC AT THE LIBRARY AND GOT
TO TALK TO PEOPLE WHO WERE
THERE AND LEARN MORE ABOUT IT
AND GIVE OUR OPINIONS EARLY ON
WHAT MAKES YOU HAPPY ABOUT THIS
PLAN IS THINKING ABOUT THE
CURRENT STATE OF ANN ARBOR.
A LOT OF PEOPLE IN MY
GENERATION HAVE A HARD TIME
BUYING HOUSES IN ANN ARBOR.
I HAVE VERY, VERY FEW FRIENDS
WHO LIVE IN ANN ARBOR.
THEY CANNOT AFFORD IT.
A LOT OF THEM WORK IN ANN ARBOR
COMMUTE FORTY MINUTES.
I HAVE ANOTHER ONE WORK WORKS
NINE HOUR THIRTY MINUTES.
THIRTY MINUTES, FIFTEEN
MINUTES.
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO LIVE HERE
AND ENJOY THE BEAUTIFUL THINGS
THAT WE HAVE TO OFFER BUT THEY
CAN'T.
THE HOUSING COSTS ARE EXTREMELY
HIGH.
I HAPPENED TO BE LUCKY AND HAVE
SOME MONEY IN ORDER TO BUY THE
HOME THAT I DID AND THIS WITHIN
THE PAST FIVE YEARS I HAVE A
FRIEND OF MINE WHO WAS LOOKING
FOR HOUSING IN THIS AREA TWO
PEOPLE INCOME WHICH NORMALLY
REQUIRED FOR THIS AREA NOWADAYS
AND STILL HAVING A HARD TIME
BACK.
OH THIS IS REALLY SAD.
>> I DON'T WANT PEOPLE TO BE
LUCKY TO HAVE TO LIVE HERE AND
NOT JUST THAT EVERYONE HAS TO
COMMUTE WHICH ONCE AGAIN A LOT
OF PEOPLE HERE ARE VERY
PASSIONATE ABOUT THE
ENVIRONMENT AND LOWER IN
COMMUTING TIMES WOULD
CONTRIBUTE TO HEALTHIER AND
LESS SMOGGY AIRWAYS, ET CETERA
.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT THE FUTURE
STATE OF THE POTENTIAL FUTURE
STATE OF ANN ARBOR WHERE WE
HAVE MANY PEOPLE WHO CAN
CONTRIBUTE TO THE TAX BASES BE
CUSTOMERS TO LOCAL BUSINESSES
SO THEY DON'T FAIL BECAUSE THEY
ARE RESIDENTS HERE AN AREA
WHERE PEOPLE CAN BIKE AND BUS
AND GET PLACES THAT THEY WANT
TO GO.
>> AND I'M JUST VERY, VERY
EXCITED FOR ALL THIS.
I'M VERY THANKFUL FOR THE WORK
YOU GUYS HAVE DONE IN MAKING
THIS VISION AND LISTENING TO
ALL OF OUR DETAILS.
I KNOW THE DETAILS ACTUALLY
HAPPEN LATER DOWN THE ROAD BUT
THE CURRENT STATE IS REALLY
CHALLENGING FOR A LOT OF US AND
WHEN WE SAY POSITIVE PLAN
SOMETIMES IT SOUNDS LIKE WE'RE
LOOKING FOR EVERYTHING TO BE
PERFECT BEFORE WE EVEN START
AND THAT JUST MEANS THAT WE'RE
SAYING IT'S OK FOR THE CURRENT
STATE TO BE HOW IT IS AND WE
DON'T KNOW WHEN THAT WILL
CHANGE EVEN SO, I REALLY
ENCOURAGE PEOPLE TO LOOK BIG
PICTURE AND WE CAN ALWAYS HASH
THE DETAILS LATER.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
HI MY NAME IS JULIE RHYDER NINE
TWENTY CATHERINE.
WHEN PEOPLE IN POSITIONS
OF AUTHORITY WANT TO INSTITUTE
A POLICY THEY KNOW WILL BE
UNPOPULAR THEY START BY MAKING
UP A STORY THEY MAKE THEY MAKE
STORIES SEEM LIKE TRUTHS.
THEY START BY INFLUENCING
UNINFORMED PEOPLE AND BUILD
THEIR BASE FROM THEIR THE
PROPOSED COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN UPSETTING THE ENTIRE CITY
BEING MARKETED BY THE PLANNING
COMMISSION AND THE CITY
ADMINISTRATION AS A FORCE FOR
FUTURE AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
BUT THE VERY FIRST THING THAT
ZONING DOES IS INCREASE THE
COST OF THE LAND WITHOUT ONE
SINGLE IMPROVEMENT.
THE STORY IS THAT BY INCREASING
DENSITY AFFORDABILITY WILL
TRICKLE DOWN TO OLDER
BUILDINGS, STUDY SHOWS THIS
HAPPENS TO THE BUILDINGS
IMMEDIATELY AROUND THE NEWEST
BUILDINGS AND DOESN'T LAST MORE
THAN A FEW YEARS.
IT WILL NOT DELIVER THE SCALE
OF AFFORDABILITY BEING PROMISED
IN A CITY THE SMALL SIZE OF ANN
ARBOR IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR A
NEW CONSTRUCTION COST FOUR
HUNDRED DOLLARS PER SQUARE FOOT
AND SINCE THEN PRICES HAVE
INCREASED FOR REASONS BEYOND
THE SCOPE OF SIMPLY ZONING
INCLUDING TARIFFS.
THE ARREST OF CONSTRUCTION
WORKERS INFLATION, CORPORATIONS
BUYING UP HOUSING.
IT'S A LONG LIST.
NEW DEVELOPMENTS IN ANN ARBOR
WILL NOT BE AFFORDABLE UNLESS
THEY ARE SUBSIDIZED HOUSING
COMMISSION OR A PART OF THE FEW
UNITS AVAILABLE THROUGH
CONSTRUCTION PREMIUMS.
OLDER NEIGHBORHOODS ARE USUALLY
THE MOST AFFORDABLE BUT THESE
ARE THE FIRST PLACE DEVELOPERS
LOOK TO SNAP UP REAL ESTATE TO
PUT TOGETHER A DEAL FOR LARGE
BUILDINGS AND THAT'S WHAT'S
HAPPENING ON CHURCH STREET AND
FOREST AND ON THE CORNER
OF PACARD AND ST. AMONG MANY
OTHERS MORE AFFORDABLE OLDER
PROPERTIES HAILED BY THE CITY
AS THE ANSWER TO AFFORDABILITY
PROBLEMS WILL BE GOING AWAY AS
QUICKLY AS DEVELOPERS CAN PUT
TOGETHER A PACKAGE THE THREAT
OF ELIMINATING AN ABYSMAL COVID
HISTORIC DISTRICTS THAT IS
INCLUDED IN THE REVISED WORDING
ON PAGE SIXTY OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN GOES INTO
THIS CATEGORY THE HIGH COST
OF NEW CONSTRUCTION HOLDS TRUE
FOR ANY TYPE OF DEVELOPMENT
FROM HIGH RISES TO TRY PLEXUS
THE STORY THAT YOUNG FAMILIES
MOVE INTO THESE RESIDENCES WITH
THEIR CHILDREN IS UNREALISTIC
UNLESS THE YOUNG FAMILY HAS
INHERITED WEALTH OR EXTREMELY
GOOD JOBS AND WANT TO LIVE IN A
CONDO OR AN APARTMENT, MOST
YOUNG FAMILIES WANT TO LIVE IN
AREAS WITH YARDS AND PORCHES
AND THERE ARE MANY OF THESE
PROPERTIES THROUGHOUT THE
TWENTY TOWNSHIPS OF WASHTENAW
COUNTY.
YOUNG FAMILIES GET THE
AMENITIES THEY WANT ON A LARGER
PIECE OF PROPERTY FOR THE SAME
OR LOWER PRICE AND MUCH LOWER
TAXES.
THE CITY CLAIMS DENSE
CONSTRUCTION WILL DECREASE
TRAFFIC.
THEY CLAIM A LARGE PERCENTAGE
OF PEOPLE LIVING OUT OF TOWN
WANT TO LIVE IN THE CITY.
BUT NO ONE HAS EVER DONE A
SURVEY TO FIND OUT HOW MANY
WANT TO LIVE HERE.
IT'S ANYONE'S GUESS WHAT THAT
NUMBER IS EVEN IF MANY THEN
MOVED TO NJ, HOWEVER, OTHER
FAMILIES WOULD BUY THEIR HOMES
AND THEN THOSE PEOPLE WOULD
COMMUTE IN TO ANN ARBOR.
IT IS A NET GAIN OF TRAFFIC.
THIS PLAN IS A CASE OF OVERKILL
LITERALLY KILLING IN ARBOR.
THE STORY BEING TOLD BY THE
CITY ADMINISTRATION IS THE
STORY OF DEVELOPERS AND TAX
ASSESSORS INCREASE REAL ESTATE
TAXES ARE ONE OF THE DRIVING
FORCES.
TAXABLE INCOME IS ALREADY
INCREASING BECAUSE OF NEW
DEVELOPMENTS COMPLETED AND MORE
IN THE PIPELINE.
HOW MUCH IS ENOUGH AND AT WHAT
COST TO THE HEART OF THE
COMMUNITY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
>> MY NAME IS CHRIS CROCKETT.
I LIVE AT FIVE OR SIX KINGSLEE
IN THE OLD FOURTH WARD HISTORIC
DISTRICT.
I WORKED ON A NUMBER
OF COMPREHENSIVE PLANS OVER THE
YEARS THAT WE'VE LIVED IN ANN
ARBOR AND THIS IS THE FIRST ONE
I'VE EVER SEEN WHICH DOES NOT
EMPHASIZE FIRST AND FOREMOST
ECOLOGY LIVING IN A HISTORIC
DISTRICT I'VE SEEN THE BEST
OF IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD A
NEIGHBORHOOD WATCH BY YOUR OWN
ADMISSION IS BELOVED AND YET IN
MAKING THE TRANSITION DISTRICT
OUT OF IT YOU SEE TO DESTROY
WHAT IS LOVED I DON'T KNOW YOU
THINK ALSO THE THING THAT WAS
WONDERFUL ABOUT OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS ARE ESTABLISHED
NEIGHBORHOODS THAT BEAR FRUIT
TREES.
SO AGAIN WE GET BACK ECOLOGY.
HOW DO WE COME HERE THE AIR
THAT WILL POLLUTED WITH LOTS
OF CARBON EMISSIONS NOT ONLY
FROM BUILDING MASSIVE CONCRETE
STRUCTURES WHICH ARE AMONG THE
MOST POLLUTING IN THE WORLD BUT
ALSO BY OPERATING THEM AND
CREATING HEAT ISLANDS.
HOW DO YOU DRIVE THIS ATTITUDE
THAT YOU PROPOSE THAT YOU WANT?
I DON'T SEE THE PATHWAY ALSO
TALK ABOUT AFFORDABILITY
AFFORDABILITY BY YOUR OWN
ADMISSION AGAIN COMES AFTER
TIME YOU BUY ADMISSION.
YOU HAVE SAID THAT THESE HIGH
RISES ARE EXPENSIVE THE LESS
EXPENSIVE HOUSING RIGHT NOW WHY
IS NEIGHBORHOODS AND YET BY
PUTTING THEM IN A TRANSITION
DISTRICT YOU WOULD SEEK TO
DESTROY THAT.
>> NOTHING IS CHEAPER NOW.
NO NEIGHBORHOOD HAS MATURED
OVER FIFTY YEARS.
YOU TALK ABOUT TEACHERS BEING
ABLE TO MOVE HERE AND LIVE HERE
AS A TEACHER I WAS ABLE TO LIVE
HERE.
I DON'T KNOW ANY TEACHER NOW AT
A SCHOOL WHERE I TAUGHT
COMMUNITY HIGH CONCURRENTLY
LIVING IN ARBOR.
WHAT HAPPENED THERE WAS THE
COMMUNITY SACRIFICED TO
INTERNATIONAL INTERNATIONAL
INVESTMENT INTERESTS BECAUSE
THAT'S WHAT'S HAPPENING AND
IT'S IT'S UNLEASHING
SPECULATION THAT INCREASES THE
PRICES FOR EVERYONE IN THIS
TOWN.
I URGE YOU TO PAUSE THIS PLAN
TO GO BACK AND TALK TO EACH
NEIGHBORHOOD INDIVIDUALLY, ASK
THE RESIDENTS WHAT DO YOU WANT?
WHERE CAN WE MEET A COMPROMISE
?
>> HOW CAN I LIVE HERE?
CAN YOU AFFORD TO LIVE HERE AND
COME TO A PLAN THAT IS WORKABLE
IN THIS TOWN THAT WILL PROTECT
OUR TREES, OUR NATURAL FUTURES
,OUR BELOVED NEIGHBORHOODS,
OUR BELOVED BUILDINGS, THE
THINGS THAT GIVE CHARACTER TO
ANN ARBOR AND ALSO ALLOWS FOR
GROWTH.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> GOOD EVENING MADAME STALBERG
HIGH LEVEL ONE TWO ZERO TWO
TRAILER STREET.
IT'S A AREA DUPLEXES IN THE
BROADWAY HISTORIC DISTRICT.
WHEN I FIRST MOVED BACK TO TOWN
AT AGE OF THIRTY THREE I BOUGHT
WITH TWO FRIENDS A FIXER UPPER
TRIPLEX IN THE OLD WEST SIDE.
I LOVE DUPLEXES TRY PLEXUS BUT
I WANT TO TALK ABOUT WHAT THE
CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION THAT
WAS PASSED THE OTHER NIGHT
MIGHT MEAN THE CITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION IN MY OPINION IS A
RUSHED ATTEMPT AT A COMPROMISE
THAT WON'T HELP ACHIEVE THE
GOALS OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
COUNCIL WANTS SOME THINGS I'M
NOT SURE THEY UNDERSTAND WHAT
THEY ASK
WHAT IT REALLY MEANS.
COUNCIL WANTS TO ELIMINATE THE
HYDE BONUS FOR THE NEW
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY FOR
EXAMPLE SO ONE CAN ALREADY
BUILD A THREE STOREY BUILDING
THIRTY FEET TALL ON OUR ONE AND
OUR TWO LOTS UNDER CURRENT
ZONING TO BUILD THREE STORIES
OF THIRTY NINE FEET TALL ONE
GIVES ELECTRIFICATION
AFFORDABLE HOUSING BENEFITS IN
RETURN UNDER THE NEW COMPROMISE
PROPOSAL ONE CAN BUILD A THREE
STOREY BUILDING AT THIRTY NINE
FEET AND ANY RESIDENTIAL LOT
WITHOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY OR
AFFORDABILITY GIVEN A TRADE I
HAVE VERIFIED MY NUMBERS WITH
STAFF SO COUNCIL'S TRYING TO
APPEASE CITIZENS WHO MIGHT BE
PICTURING A TALLER BUILDING
BEING BUILT NEAR THEIR HOME BY
ELIMINATING THIS BONUS FROM THE
NEW PLAN.
BUT THE NEW BUILDING CAN BE
JUST AS TALL AS THE CURRENT
MAXIMUM USING THE BONUS AND WE
FORGO THE COMMUNITY BENEFITS
THAT ARE SUPPOSED TO GET IN
TRADE FOR THE BONUS.
THIS IS NOT A REASSURANCE.
THIS IS A GIVEAWAY.
THERE'S A LOSS FOR
SUSTAINABILITY AND
AFFORDABILITY.
COUNCIL ALSO WANTS TO HAVE A
LIMIT OF THREE UNITS PER
RESIDENTIAL LOT IN THOSE THREE
UNITS BE IN AN ATTACHED
BUILDING THAT'S THIRTY NINE
FEET TALL OR EVEN TALLER.
SURE.
WHAT ABOUT LOFT ACCOMDATION
UNDER THE PLAN AND THE
COMPROMISE RESOLUTION TOGETHER
THE ROBINSON BROTHERS PRODUCT
THAT WAS APPROVED AT THE SAME
NIGHT AS A COMPROMISE
RESOLUTION THAT COULD BE PUT ON
ONTO ADJACENT LOTS SIX UNITS ON
TWO LOTS OF THREE ATTACHED
UNITS AND LOT IT WILL FIT
WITHIN THE CURRENT ZONING
SETBACKS.
IT'S THIRTY NINE FEET TALL AT
THE MIDPOINT OF THE TOP ROOF
LINE AND THE PEAK HITS FORTY
FOUR FEET.
I'M PRETTY SURE THIS WOULD BE
ACHIEVED BY RIGHT ON ANY
STANDARD ONE C LOT WHICH THERE
ARE ALL OVER TOWN LOTS IF THE
COMPROMISE AND THE PLAN OUR
ADOPTED IF YOU LIVE IN A RANCH
HOUSE ON THE STREET OF RANCH
HOUSES ARE YOU APPEASED WHEN
THESE SIX UNITS ON TWO LOTS AND
THIRTY NINE FEET TALL CAN BE
BUILT BY RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE
OF YOUR NEIGHBORHOOD?
NO NOTICE NO COUNSELOR PLANNING
COMMISSION APPROVAL NEEDED FOR
THESE SIX CONDOS STARTING AT
HALF A MILLION DOLLARS EACH.
THE NEW DEVELOPMENT BY
ROBERTSON BROTHERS WILL BE ALL
ELECTRIC.
THE NEW PLAN WITH THE COUNCIL'S
COMPROMISE RESOLUTION LOSES THE
ELECTRIFICATION BENEFIT OF THE
THREE TEST UNITS PER WATT THAT
IT WOULD ALLOW.
DOESN'T THIS GO IN THE WRONG
DIRECTION OF AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY?
PAUSE TO PLAN AND GET IT RIGHT
.
THANK YOU.
>> IS THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
?
>> GOOD EVENING COMMISSION.
MY NAME IS SARAH BASSIOUNY
PRONOUNCED ANY I SPOKE IN A
COUPLE OF TIMES BEFORE I LEAVE
AT ONE THREE ACTUALLY MEANS
DRIVE WITH MY SPOUSE AND MOST
OF MY COMMENTS PREVIOUSLY A
BOOK IS KIND OF ON LIKE THE TOP
DOWN THIRTY THOUSAND FOOT VIEW
ON THE COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE
PLAN.
>> BUT TONIGHT I THINK I'LL
KEEP MY COMMENTS KIND OF SHORT
AND TARGETED TO A SPECIFIC
SPOT.
I DO SPEAK IN SUPPORT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
I'D LIKE TO EXPAND A BIT ON ONE
OF THE POINTS THAT KIRK
WESTFALL HAD SPOKEN ABOUT
REGARDING MAIDEN LANE SHIFTING
FROM A TRANSITION TO A HUB
DISTRICT.
I HAD LIVED THERE FROM TWENTY
FOURTEEN TO TWENTY SEVENTEEN
WHILE DOING MY MASTER'S AT THE
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND I
STILL HAVE LOVED ONES WHO LIVE
IN THAT AREA SO I VISIT VERY
FREQUENTLY.
IT'S A BEAUTIFUL AREA.
IT'S NEXT TO THE RIVER.
IT IS VERY DESIRABLE AND THE
AREA THAT I LIVED IN WAS A
MULTIPLEX THAT WAS BUILT IN THE
60S SUPER OLD BUILDING THINGS
ARE BREAKING BUT IT WAS A
BEAUTIFUL LOCATION.
IT'S GREAT.
IT'S BY THE BUSSES.
I COULD WALK TO SCHOOL.
I WALKED IN THE SNOW.
YOU KNOW, I WOULD WALK IN THE
SUMMER.
>> IT WAS JUST A WONDERFUL
LOCATION.
THAT BEING SAID, I LIVED THERE
BEFORE.
THERE WAS A LOT OF THIS
ACTIVATION THE SPACE SO BEFORE
BEEKMAN, BEFORE LOWERTOWN, THE
THE BAR AND RESTAURANT HAD COME
UP AND SO NORTH OF ME THERE
REALLY WASN'T MUCH THAT I
WANTED TO EXPLORE IF I WANTED
TO GET GROCERIES I DIDN'T HAVE
A CAR I WOULD HAVE TO TAKE THE
BUS TO THE KROGER ON PLYMOUTH.
THAT WOULD TAKE A LOT OF TIME
AND I WOULD HAVE TO PLAN OUT MY
DAY REALLY INTENSELY TO FIGURE
OUT HOW MUCH CAN I CARRY BACK.
AND SO I WOULD STRONGLY
RECOMMEND HAVING BEATEN LANE IN
PARTICULAR GOING TO A HUB
DISTRICT BECAUSE THERE ARE A
LOT OF PEOPLE LIKE ME BOTH IN
TERMS OF STUDENTS BUT ALSO A
LOT OF YOUNG PROFESSIONALS WITH
THEIR FAMILIES AS WELL AS
RETIREES.
SO PEOPLE THAT I KNOW MY LOVED
ONES BUT ALSO WHEN I LIVED
THERE IN TWENTY FOURTEEN TWENTY
FIFTEEN ONE OF MY NEIGHBORS
BILL WAS IN HIS 90S AND HE HAD
LIVED IN THAT SAME MULTIPLEX
SINCE THE 70S.
HE LOVED THAT LOCATION BUT HE
HIMSELF NOTED THAT AS HE GOT
OLDER HIS WORLD WAS SHRINKING
BECAUSE HE COULDN'T DRIVE MUCH.
AND SO IF HE HAD HAD A SPACE
LIKE BEEKMAN WHERE THERE'S
ORANGE MARKET WHERE HE COULD
WALK AND GET GROCERIES, IT
WOULD HAVE REALLY CHANGED HIS
PIN SPACE.
>> AND SO I WOULD STRONGLY
RECOMMEND HAVING THAT AREA BE
SHIFTED TO HUBS AND I DO WANT
TO JUST ECHO I THINK SOME
OF THE THINGS THAT I KNOW I'VE
BEEN TRYING TO SHARE WITH
PEOPLE WHEN THEY ASKED ME ABOUT
THE PLAN THIS IS A VISION.
THIS ISN'T A LAW.
THIS ISN'T SOMETHING THAT'S
COMING DOWN REAL HARD ON FOLKS.
>> IT IS A VISION OF WHAT WE
WANT OUR COMMUNITY AND OUR
SPACE TO LOOK LIKE.
AND SO I ASK ONCE AGAIN THE
COMMISSION PLEASE DO NOT
RESTRICT PREMATURELY THESE
SPACES IN GENERAL BUT ALSO A
PARTICULAR MEDIUM WHERE I THINK
IT'S REALLY IMPORTANT THAT WE
CONTINUE TO HAVE A BROAD AND
INCLUSIVE VISION FOR EVERYBODY.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> SORRY VERY I'M SORRY ANDREW
ROBBINS TWENTY THREE FIFTY FIVE
LANCASHIRE DRIVE.
JUST WANTED TO MAKE ONE QUICK
NOTE ABOUT THE CARBON EMISSIONS
RELATIVE OF HAVING YOU KNOW
EIGHTY THOUSAND PEOPLE
COMMUTING FROM OUTSIDE OF THE
TOWN TO HAVING THEM LIVE HERE
EVEN IF YOU ASSUME THAT THE ONE
TIME CARBON EMISSIONS BUILDING
A CONCRETE BUILDING ARE HIGHER
WHICH I THINK IS REASONABLE YOU
ARE ELIMINATING ON AVERAGE FOR
EACH PERSON TRAVELING FIFTEEN
MILES IT'S ABOUT HALF THE SIZE
OF THE COUNTY IN AND OUT
OF ARBOR EVERY DAY YOU'RE
ELIMINATING FOUR TO FIVE TONS
OF CARBON PER PERSON IF YOU
HAVE EIGHTY THOUSAND PEOPLE
THAT COMMUTING TO WORK THERE IS
VERY LITTLE THAT YOU CAN DO
PLAYING AROUND THE MARGINS
WITHOUT GETTING THEM TO STOP
COMMUTING.
TO DO THAT WE NEED MORE
HOUSING.
IT'S KIND OF UNAVOIDABLE.
PLEASE DO NOT RESTRICT
PREMATURELY.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT CAN
COVER TWENTY HERE COURT SHORT
COME IN AS WELL.
IT'S NOT ABOUT THE COMP PLAN
IT'S ABOUT AGENDA ITEM ELEVEN
SEE THE BYLAWS AMENDMENTS
YOU'LL GET TO MAYBE AROUND
MIDNIGHT SO I FEEL SORRY FOR
YOU IN THE MEANTIME BUT MAYBE
PUT THIS COMMENT IN YOUR BACK
POCKET UNTIL THEN WHENEVER AS
YOU KNOW TWO WEEKS AGO CITY
COUNCIL VOTED TO ELIMINATE
PUBLIC HEARINGS FOR MY RIGHT
SIDE PLANS AND THE PROMISE WAS
TO REPLACE THESE HEARINGS WITH
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIODS AND I
WAS HOPING TO SEE THIS IN THE
PROPOSED BYLAW AMENDMENT
TONIGHT BUT THEY'RE NOT THERE.
>> SO MY QUESTION MY CONCERN IS
HOW WILL THE NEW PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD FOR SITE PLANS BE
CODIFIED IF AT ALL OR IS IT
GOING TO BE LEFT UP TO THE
DISCRETION OF STAFF?
HOW IS IT GOING TO BE HANDLED?
SO I'M LOOKING FOR SOME
REASSURANCE IN THE DISCUSSION
LATER ON.
THAT'S MY CONCERN BECAUSE AS
MACCRACKEN MENTIONED, WE DO
HAVE TO RECONCILE THIS WHOLE
BUILDING BOOM THAT WE'RE
EXPERIENCING AND THAT WE WANT
AND NEED WITH THE OUR CLIMATE
COMMITMENTS HERE IN THE CITY
AND THAT DISCUSSION OFTEN TAKES
PLACE AT THE LEVEL OF THE SITE
PLAN DISCUSSION INCLUDING
PUBLIC COMMENT AND SO I THINK I
WOULD REALLY LIKE TO SEE THAT
PUBLIC COMMENT CODIFIED IN THE
BYLAWS A POSSIBLE AND ALSO
PLACED CAREFULLY WHERE IT IS
NOW AS WE'LL HEAR LATER WITH
THE TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE AND
OBVIOUSLY ROAD PUBLIC HEARING
WHICH IS A REZONING FOLLOWING
THAT DEVELOPER PRESENTATION AND
THE STAFF PRESENTATION AND THEN
THE PUBLIC COMMENT, I THINK
THAT'S THE APPROPRIATE PLACE
OF THE PUBLIC IN HERE WHAT IS
BEING PROPOSED AND THEN THE
DEVELOPER CAN COME BACK HERE IN
THE DISCUSSION PERIOD, ADD
ADDITIONAL COMMENTS, ANSWER
QUESTIONS ET CETERA.
I THINK THAT SYSTEM WORKS WELL
AND YOU KNOW, NOW THAT PUBLIC
HEARINGS HAVE GONE, LET'S AT
LEAST PUT PUBLIC COMMENT ON THE
SAME SORT OF PLATFORM GOING
INTO THE FUTURE BECAUSE IT'S
GOING TO BE A LOT OF THESE
PROJECTS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
I'M SUSAN KAUFMAN.
I LIVE AT SIX THIRTY FIFTH
STREET.
THE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
RECENTLY CHANGED LANGUAGE IN
THE DRAFT COMPREHENSIVE LAND
USE PLAN TO AN OSTENSIBLY
NEUTRAL BUT ACTUALLY MORE
NONCOMMITTAL RELATIONSHIP TO
HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
PREVIOUS LANGUAGE SAID HISTORIC
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES WILL BE
MAINTAINED AND DEVELOPMENT WILL
CONTINUE TO ADHERE TO THE
EXISTING STANDARDS AND DESIGN
GUIDELINES APPROVED BY THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
THAT LANGUAGE WAS DELETED AT
THE JULY 15TH CPK MEETING
REPLACED WITH THE STATEMENT
THAT THE PLAN TAKES NO POSITION
ON HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
BUT OF COURSE IT DOES NOTING
THAT THESE NEIGHBORHOODS ARE
SOME OF THE CITY'S MOST BELOVED
BUT THEY ARE OFTEN LIMITED IN
PROVIDING NEW HOUSING UNITS
COMPARABLE TO SIMILARLY ZONED
PROPERTY ELSEWHERE, IMPLYING
THAT HISTORIC DISTRICTS ARE
SHIFTING THE BURDEN
OF DEVELOPMENT IN A ZERO SUM
SCHEME TO OTHER NEIGHBORHOODS.
THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE WAS
DELETED SO THAT IF UNDERLYING
ZONING WERE EVER ALLOWED TO
TRUMP HISTORIC DISTRICT
PROTECTIONS, THE
CITY WOULD NOT
BE BOUND TO MAINTAIN CURRENT
BOUNDARIES OR HDC STANDARDS AND
GUIDELINES.
THE GOAL WOULD BE TO REVERT TO
UNDERLYING ZONING THAT WOULD
QUALIFY A PORTION OF A HISTORIC
DISTRICT FOR INCLUSION IN A
TRANSITION ZONE WITH MUCH
GREATER ALLOWANCES.
>> I ASK YOU TO RESTORE THE
ORIGINAL LANGUAGE TO THE PLAN.
FURTHERMORE, I URGE YOU TO MAKE
HISTORIC PRESERVATION A KEY
ELEMENT OF THE PLAN AS OTHER
COMMUNITIES HAVE DONE.
PLEASE CONSIDER OUR HISTORIC
DISTRICTS AND PROPERTIES TO BE
VALUABLE ASSETS WORTH
PRESERVING.
WHY ARE THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS
AND THEIR SURROUNDING
NEIGHBORHOODS ESPECIALLY
BELOVED?
THEY'RE INTERESTING AND
EDUCATIONAL REFLECTING THE
HISTORY OF THE CITY.
THEY HAVE DIVERSE ARCHITECTURAL
STYLES AND OLD TREES.
THEY MAKE ANN ARBOR DISTINCTIVE
ATTRACTING PEOPLE TO RELOCATE
HERE AND TO VISIT PROMOTING
TOURISM AND GENERATING REVENUE
.
HISTORIC DISTRICTS HAVE MIXED
USES INCLUDING LEGACY
BUSINESSES, INSTITUTIONAL AND
COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS, DUPLEXES,
SMALL APARTMENT BUILDINGS AND
OLD HOMES THAT HAVE BEEN
RETROFITTED TO ACCOMMODATE
MULTIPLE UNRELATED TENANTS.
AS A RESULT, THEY'RE ALREADY
DENSER AND MORE ECONOMICALLY
DIVERSE THAN THEY MAY APPEAR.
THEY ARE THE OPPOSITE OF THE
FUTURELESS HIGH RISE IS GROWING
UP AROUND US.
>> IF AS YOU SAY WE NEED THOSE
THEN PLEASE CONSIDER THAT WE
ALSO NEED NEIGHBORHOODS THAT
RETAIN HISTORIC FEATURES AND
PROVIDE CONTEXT.
THEY'RE ENJOYED NOT ONLY BY
THOSE WHO LIVE IN THEM BUT ALSO
BY ALL THE OTHER ANN ARBOR
RESIDENTS WHOM YOU TELL US LOVE
HAVING THEM AS PART OF THE
FABRIC OF THE CITY.
THEY'RE A BIG PART OF AN
ARBOR'S SECRET SOURCE.
>> NEIGHBORHOODS ADD VALUE IN
VARIOUS WAYS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
IT'S THERE ANYONE ELSE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
DO WE HAVE ANY ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS?
>> WE DO.
BRIAN CHAMBERS, YOU CAN ADDRESS
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP
TO THREE MINUTES
.
GO AHEAD, MR. CHAMBERS.
ALL RIGHT.
HERE WE GO.
YES, WE CAN GO AHEAD.
ALL RIGHT.
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
THIS IS BRIAN CHAMBERS.
TWENTY EIGHT FIFTEEN NO WAY IN
THE THIRD WARD.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CONTINUED
DEDICATION TO THE COMPREHENSIVE
LAND USE PLAN AND YOUR DILIGENT
WORK ON IT WITH THE RECENT
RESOLUTION FROM CITY COUNCIL WE
HAVE A CLEAR POLICY FRAMEWORK
TO RESIDENTIAL GROWTH FUNDING
THREE STORIES AND THREE UNITS
THE DEFAULT SKILL FOR LOW RISE
DISTRICTS WHILE ALSO SUPPORTING
ADDITIONAL HOUSING TYPES LOOK
FOR PLACES WHERE THEY ARE
APPROPRIATE TO NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT.
I BELIEVE ONE OF THE OTHER
SPEAKERS MENTIONED THOUGH THAT
THERE COULD BE CONTROVERSY
TRYING TO WORK THOSE ADDITIONAL
CONTEXTS IN ON A MORE AD HOC
BASIS.
SO I'M GOING TO RECOMMEND THEY
ALSO BE ESTABLISHED ON A DAILY
BASIS WHERE THEY THOUGHT THE
APPROPRIATE NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXT THAT NEEDS TO BE
DEFINED IN THE IMPLEMENTATION
PHASE.
BUT IMPORTANTLY THE CURRENT
DRAFT OF THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
ALREADY LAYS THE GROUNDWORK FOR
THIS THROUGH ITS COMMITMENT TO
FOREIGN BASED KNOWN AS THE
IMPLEMENTATION TOOL FOR LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
THAT DECISION OPENS THE DOOR TO
MORE NUANCED AND INCLUSIVE
HOUSING ONE THAT FOCUSES NOT
JUST ON HOW MANY UNITS ARE IN
THE BUILDING BUT HOW THAT
BUILDING FITS INTO THE
SURROUNDING NEIGHBORHOOD TO
LINE THIS PROCESS WITH
COUNCIL'S GUIDANCE AND STILL
DELIVER MEANINGFUL NEW HOUSING
OPPORTUNITIES.
I URGE THE COMMISSION TO ENSURE
THE PLAN INCLUDES THESE FOUR
POINTS ONE SUPPORT FOR BUILDING
DEVELOPMENT FOR SMALL SCALE
MULTIPLEX'S DUPLEXES DRY PLEXUS
AND FOR APPLIANCES WHEN BUILT
TO FORM BASED STANDARDS INSTEAD
OF LIMITING FOUR PLACES TO A
DISCRETIONARY PROCESS, THE
PLANS ARE ALLOWED ALSO TO RIGHT
ONSITE REFORM AND MACING ARE
COMPATIBLE WITH NEIGHBORHOOD
CONTEXTS SUCH AS CORDYLINES
PARCEL'S NEW YORK TRANSIT OR
LARGER.
LOTTE'S WITHIN A WALKABLE
NETWORK OF SERVICES AND PARKS.
THIS WOULD HONOR THE COUNCIL'S
STATED INTENT TO LIMIT SCALE
NOT STIFLE THE OPPORTUNITY TO
DESIGN DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS,
ACCELERATE SCALE TO FORM USE.
FOR EXAMPLE A FOURPLEX EIGHT
POINT SIX FIVE CAR WITHIN A
THIRTY FIVE FOOT THREE STOREY
BELOW CAN LOOK IDENTICAL TO A
LARGE SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
BUT FOR HOUSEHOLDS INSTEAD
OF ONE THIS NEW BUILDINGS
COMPATIBLE WHILE INCREASING
HOUSING CHOICE AND THE PER UNIT
HOUSING COST WOULD BE A QUARTER
OF A SINGLE FAMILY HOME.
THIRTY MORE SECOND COMMITMENT
TO REMOVING COST AND PROCESS
BARRIERS SIX POINT THREE THAT
PREVENTS THE SMALL MULTIPLEX'S
FIRMS FROM BEING BUILT
PARTICULARLY THOSE THAT AFFECT
AFFORDABILITY.
THIS INCLUDES REDUCING OR
ELIMINATING MINIMUM SIZE AND
EXCESSIVE SET REQUIREMENTS,
REMOVING STREET PARKING
MANDATES NEAR TRANSIT FOR
NEIGHBORHOOD CENTERS,
STREAMLINING PERMITTING AND
SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCESSES FOR
PROJECTS THAT MEET FORM
STANDARDS AND MINIMIZING SELCA
ARCHITECTURAL DETAIL AND
PERMITTING EXPENSES
DISPROPORTIONED BURDEN SMALLER
SCALE INFL THE FOURTH POINT IS
THE REASON THAT THESE REFORMS
TO ENTER THIS PROGRAM IS THAT
YOUR TIME'S UP.
>> THANK YOU.
OK WELL THANK YOU TOO.
I APPRECIATE YOUR WORK BUT ADAM
JUSZKIEWICZ YOU HAVE THREE
MINUTES TO ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THIS IS ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ, THE
LAS VEGAS DRIVE IN THE FOURTH
WARD.
THANK YOU FOR GIVING ME TIME TO
SPEAK AND FOR ALL YOU DO FOR
OUR WONDERFUL CITY WE ARE IN A
CLIMATE CRISIS AND HOUSING
CRISIS.
THIS PLAN NEEDS TO ADVANCE A
STRONG VISION OF ABUNDANT
HOUSING IF WE ARE GOING TO EVEN
APPROACH SOLVING THESE CRISES
DENSE WALKABLE URBAN
DEVELOPMENT IS MORE SUSTAINABLE
THAN SUBURBAN CAR CENTRIC
DEVELOPMENT AND WITHOUT
BUILDING IN ANN ARBOR FOR ALL
WE WILL FORCE MORE PEOPLE INTO
SUBURBAN SPRAWL OUTSIDE ANN
ARBOR.
THAT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE.
IT'S NOT SUSTAINABLE
ENVIRONMENTALLY, ECONOMICALLY
OR SOCIALLY.
TO THAT END I HAVE A COUPLE
OF SPECIFIC COMMENTS.
>> FIRST OF ALL, I AGREE WITH
THOSE WHO HAVE ASKED THAT YOU
ROLL THE R THREE IN OUR FOUR
CATEGORIES INTO TRANSITION.
I BELIEVE THAT THE
CHARACTERISTICS OF THAT
CATEGORY SUCH AS THE TAPER DOWN
TO A THREE STORY LIMIT ADJACENT
TO RESIDENTIAL HAVE THE
FLEXIBILITY NECESSARY TO DO
THIS.
I ALSO WANT TO MAKE ONE POINT
HERE IN REGARD TO THE
RESOLUTION SENT TO YOU BY
COUNSEL.
I SENT THIS PARTIZAN EMAIL BUT
IT WAS THE LAST MINUTE AND I
WANTED TO READ IT INTO THE
RECORD.
I HOPE YOU READ THIS SIMILAR TO
ME IN THAT WHAT THEY HAVE DONE
IS SET A FLOOR ON DENSITY, NOT
A LIMIT.
I WISH THAT FLOOR HAD BEEN
HIGHER BUT IT IS CLEAR TO ME
THAT THE MEANING IS AT LEAST
THREE UNITS MUST BE ALLOWED
THROUGHOUT THE CITY AND MORE
SHOULD BE ALLOWED WHEREVER THEY
FIT THE CONTEXT OF THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD SUCH AS MY OWN
WHAT I HOPE TO SEE RECOMMENDED
IN THE COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND
IMPLEMENTED IN ZONING IS A FORM
BASED APPROACH THAT LIMITS THE
OVERALL DIMENSIONS OF BUILDINGS
AND THEREFORE EFFECTIVELY THEIR
FLOOR AREA TO WHAT IS
CONTEXTUALLY APPROPRIATE IN
SIZE AND FORM WHILE MAKING SURE
THAT A BUILDING LARGE ENOUGH TO
HOUSE THREE UNITS IS ALWAYS
FEASIBLE WITHIN THOSE
CONSTRAINTS MAXIMUM OCCUPANCY
IS ALREADY REGULATED IN OUR
HOUSING AND BUILDING CODES
BASED ON HABITABLE SPACE, ROOM
SIZE AND SO FORTH.
I THINK THAT IN CONJUNCTION
BUILDING FORM AND DIMENSION
STANDARDS IS SUFFICIENT TO
CONTROL DENSITY WITHOUT
REDUNDANT LIMITS ON THE
INTERIOR BEDROOM COUNT OR
INEQUITABLE RESTRICTIONS ON
UNRELATED ADULTS.
THIS TO ME PROVIDES THE
FLEXIBILITY TO ENABLE MORE
DENSITY THAN A TRIPLEX RIGHT
WHERE A LARGER BUILDING
FOOTPRINTS ARE CONTEXTUALLY
APPROPRIATE SUCH AS IN
NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE MY OWN WHERE
THERE'S PLENTY OF ROOM FOR MORE
DENSITY.
I BELIEVE THIS IS WITHIN BOTH
THE SPIRIT AND THE LETTER
OF COUNCIL'S RESOLUTION.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> COLOR THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH SIX THREE ZERO YOU
CAN START SIXT ON MUTE AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR THREE MINUTES.
GO AHEAD
CALL THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH SIX THREE ZERO.
>> GO AHEAD
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
WE HAVE ANOTHER AUDIENCE MEMBER
TO COME BACK TO BRAD PRINCE.
>> YOU CAN ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSION STAFF AND THOSE IN
THE AUDIENCE MR. THINKS YOU'RE
QUITE FAINT.
>> IF YOU CAN GET A LITTLE
CLOSER TO YOUR AUDIO SOURCE
THAT MIGHT BE HELPFUL.
DOES THAT HELP A LITTLE BIT?
>> YES.
THANK YOU.
THAT'S OK.
THAT'S AS CLOSE AS I GET.
ALL RIGHT.
THANKS TO THE PLANNING
COMMISSION YOUR VOLUNTEERS AND
SERVE ON YOUR OWN DIME.
I APPRECIATE THAT AND YOU'RE
BUSTING YOUR BUTTS ON THIS.
YEAH, IT'S HARD.
I KNOW.
AND STAFF THANK YOU BECAUSE
YOU'RE PUTTING UP WITH MANY
PEOPLE LIKE THE LIKES OF ME
TELLING YOU HOW TO DO YOUR JOBS
WHEN YOU HAVE PERHAPS GRADUATE
DEGREES AND YEARS OF EXPERIENCE
AND WE KNOW NOTHING.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR PATIENCE
LISTENING TO US.
MY CONCERN IS NOT ABOUT DETAILS
OF WHICH DIRECTION TO GO BUT
RATHER THE PROCESS PUBLIC QUOTE
UNQUOTE ENGAGEMENT NOT THAT
IT'S NOT CALLED PUBLIC INPUT I
ATTENDED UNLIKE SOME OF THE
OTHERS WHO SAID GEE I HAD NO
IDEA THIS WAS HAPPENING.
I DID ATTEND TWO MEETINGS AND
TWO MEETING ON A BOX MEETINGS
AND MY IMPRESSION WAS THESE
WERE CAREFULLY STRUCTURED TO
AVOID GENUINE INPUT IN THE SAME
WAY THAT HIS PARENTS WE CONTROL
OUR KIDS BY SAYING JIMMY, WHAT
WOULD YOU LIKE FOR DINNER?
DO YOU WANT THE GREEN BEANS
SPINACH?
YOU DON'T WANT TO HEAR JIMMY
SAY ARTICHOKE AND YOU SURE
DON'T WANT TO HEAR JIMMY SAY AN
ICE CREAM SANDWICH.
AND ONE OF THE SPEAKERS EARLIER
TODAY REFERRED TO THIS BY
SAYING YOU LITTLE DETAILS LIKE
FOR THEY GAVE DOTTS TO SAY
WHERE DO I WANT DENSITY?
YOU DIDN'T GIVE A CHANCE TO SAY
WHERE YOU WANTED LESS SO BY
NEIGHBORHOOD LET'S DIG INTO
THIS AND DO REAL DIALOG AND
DISCUSSION.
IT'S MESSY, IT'S SLOW BUT IT'S
PRODUCTIVE ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU
HAVE A COMBINATION
OF TECHNICALLY COMPLEX THINGS
THAT ARE EMOTIONAL SO LET'S
STEP UP TO THAT EFFORT, GET
PEOPLE TOGETHER BECAUSE ONCE WE
WORK THROUGH THAT IT'LL BE A
PLAN EVERYONE CAN LIVE WITH.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> COME WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING WITH FIVE EIGHT ONE YOU
CAN PRESS STAR SIX ON MUTE AND
ADDRESS THE PLANNING COMMISSION
FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
CALL
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH FIVE EIGHT ONE PRESS STAR
SIX ON MUTE AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
GO BY RAMPING UP AT TWELVE
MCCLAIR FIVE DOLLARS AND A BIG
TOPIC TONIGHT.
I WON'T ELABORATE AS MUCH AS I
PLAN.
WE HAVE TWENTY ONE POINTS
OF SOLAIRE IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND THE CITY HAS ENCOURAGED
CITIZEN INVOLVEMENT.
ENVISION A TWO ZERO FOUR YEARS
LOTS OF RESIDENTS AND LOTS
OF BUSINESSES HAVE
ENTHUSIASTICALLY RESPONDED AND
FOR EXAMPLE A NEW BUILDING NEXT
TO MY HOUSE AT THIRTY NINE FEET
TALL.
EVEN WITH THE CURRENT FIVE
SETBACKS OF FIVE FEET FROM THE
FLAT LINE WITH BLOCK OUR SOLAR
PANELS NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT COULD SIGNIFICANTLY
AFFECT NOT JUST MY HOUSE BUT
ALSO THE NEW BUILDING THAT IS
NOT REQUIRED TO PROVIDE
SUSTAINABLE ALITY OR
AFFORDABILITY TO REACH THIRTY
NINE FEET AND REDUCE SETBACKS
CAN DECREASE THE SPACE FOR
PLANTS AND SAVE MOST OF US.
NO WE WILL NOT SEE A MONETARY
RETURN ON OUR INVESTMENTS IN
OUR LIFETIME.
WE MADE THESE INVESTMENTS FOR
FUTURE GENERATIONS AND FOR THE
ENVIRONMENT.
MY QUESTION IS HAS THE ISSUE
OF BLOCKING HOME SOULLESSNESS
BEEN FACTORED INTO YOUR PLAN?
>> I AM NOT AWARE IF IT HAS
BEEN AND PLEASE CORRECT ME IF
I'M WRONG ON ANOTHER TOPIC THAT
HASN'T BEEN MENTIONED IS THE
DESTRUCTION OF AFFORDABLE
RETAIL SPACES ALONG THE
PROPOSED TRANSIT AND HUB AREAS
THAT IS ALREADY UNDERWAY.
NEW RETAIL SPACE UNDER NEW HIGH
RISES WILL LIKELY BE
UNAFFORDABLE TO MOST LOCAL
BUSINESSES.
>> MANY NEW RETAIL SPACES UNDER
THESE HIGH RISES ARE VACANT AND
HAVE HIGH TURNOVER RATE.
THEY ARE CERTAINLY NOT
INHABITED BY OUR LOCAL RETAIL.
INSTEAD WE GET BIG BOX AND
CHAIN STORES NOT LOCAL
BUSINESSES.
RELAX MASSAGE STATION I BELIEVE
DOWNTOWN FOR A HUGE HIGH RISE
AND LUCKILY FOUND A SPOT ON
PACARD DOWNTOWN HOME AND GARDEN
IS CLOSING AT THE END OF THIS
YEAR BECAUSE THEY CAN NO LONGER
SURVIVE WITH THE REDUCED FOOT
TRAFFIC THE CONVERSION OF SOUTH
ASHLEIGH TO TWO WAY TRAFFIC
GARBAGE ACCUMULATION THAT IS
NOT COLLECTED ETC. THEIR LIST
OF REASONS WAS EXTENSIVE FELONY
TO FILE WAS FORCED TO MOVE
BUILDING WAS RAISING THE RENT
THAT WAS UNAFFORDABLE.
SO WHAT ARE WE DOING TO OUR
LOCAL BUSINESSES?
PEOPLE ASK FOR MORE JOB SPACE
AND MORE TRANSITION ZONES.
BUT HAVE YOU THOUGHT ABOUT WHAT
THIS IS DOING TO OUR LOCAL
BUSINESSES IN OUR STATE ARE
SCRAMBLING TO FIND FIND NEW
AFFORDABLE SPACE FOR THEIR
BUSINESSES?
WE ABOUT SHOP LOCAL BUT THIS
PLAN DOES NOT THINK ABOUT HOW
THIS PLAN WILL AFFECT LOCAL
RETAIL.
I FULLY SUPPORT AFFORDABILITY,
SUSTAINABILITY AND EQUITY IN
HOUSING.
I AM NOT AN OPPONENT OR A NEW
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN.
I BELIEVE MANY RESIDENTS WOULD
WELCOME A POSITIVE PLAN TO
ENGAGE IN TRULY MEANINGFUL
CONVERSATIONS AND HAVE SERIOUS
QUESTIONS.
CONSIDER TO MAKE THIS PLAN AN
INCLUSIVE DEMOCRATIC PROCESS.
THIS COMMUNITY IS FULL OF SMART
CRITICAL THINKING.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME IS UP.
WELCOME.
>> THANK YOU.
CALLED THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING
WITH SIX FOUR FOUR EXPRESS SIX
TO UNMUTED AND ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
>> THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS CATHY GORATH.
I LIVE AT 176 CHARLTON IN THE
FIFTH WARD THE OLD VERSION
OF THE NEIGHBORS FROM OUR
NEIGHBORS YARD SIGN FEATURED A
LINE OF FOUR OR FIVE BUILDINGS
COZYING UP TO EACH OTHER.
BUT THE MOST RECENT VERSION
OF THE NEIGHBORS FROM OUR
NEIGHBORS YARD SIGN APPEARING
IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD NOW SUPPORTS
THE TREE AT THE END OF THE LINE
OF BUILDING.
I WONDER IS THE APPEARANCE
OF THE TREES SIGNIFICANT?
THE FIRST TWO DRAFTS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND PLAN KNOBBED
OR GHOSTED OUR CITY'S NATURAL
FEATURES.
>> THOSE DRAFTS BARELY GAVE
NATURAL FEATURES.
THE NOD BUT THE TREE ON THE
NEIGHBORS FROM OUR NEIGHBOR'S
SIDE GAVE ME HOPE THAT THOSE
AMONG US WEARING DARK BLUE
SHIRTS ARE JUST AS CONCERNED
ABOUT ANY NATURAL FEATURES AS
THOSE OF US WHO ARE NOT WEARING
DARK BLUE SHIRTS.
MAYBE THEY AGREE THAT OUR TREES
WETLANDS, FLOODPLAIN
GROUNDWATER SEEPS FLOW AS WELL
AS THE NATIVE PLANT AND ANIMAL
ECOSYSTEMS ARE JUST AS
IMPORTANT AS THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT THAT WE ARE
PLANNING.
MAYBE THEY WOULDN'T MIND IF A
BUILDING HAD TO MOVE OVER JUST
A BIT FOR A TREE OR STEEP.
IN ANY CASE, IF THE NATURAL
FEATURES PLAN AS CURRENTLY
WRITTEN FALLS AWAY OR IS
REDUCED TO JUST A FEW
PARAGRAPHS IN THE REVISED DRAFT
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN THAT IS SET
BY THE CITY COUNCIL FOR
APPROVAL THEN OUR NATURAL
FEATURES ARE NOT LIKELY TO
SURVIVE AND WE WILL HAVE
ABANDONED THE FIGHT FOR A
LIVABLE CITY.
>> SO PLEASE MAKE SURE THAT
NATURAL FEATURES WILL CONTINUE
TO BE FEATURED AND DEFENDED IN
ONE OF OUR CITIES MOST
IMPORTANT OFFICIAL PLANNING
DOCUMENT.
THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
BRANDON DEMCHUK.
YOU CAN ME ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
>> HI THIS IS BRANDON.
I LIVE IN LEVITTOWN IN THE
FOURTH WARD IN EARLIER TODAY
SHANNON SAID KEEP IT SIMPLE AND
I JUST SORT OF AGREEING WITH
THAT I WOULD VERY MUCH
ENCOURAGE US TO TO GET THIS
DONE SO WE CAN WE CAN MOVE ON
TO ALL THE FUTURE DISCUSSIONS
WE HAVE ABOUT ACTUAL UDC AND
ZONING CHANGES VERY OUR VIEW
ABOUT SOLAR PANELS AND HEIGHT
LIMITS AND ALL OF THIS IS A
VISION DOCUMENT.
IT'S NOT INTENDED TO BE PAPER
SPECIFIC ABOUT EACH
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE WILL GET TO LEADER I PROMISE
SO AND ALSO I WANT TO SAY THANK
YOU TO PLANNING COMMISSIONERS
AND STAFF FOR ALL YOUR ALL YOUR
TIME ON THIS.
>> I LOOK FORWARD TO WELCOMING
NEW NEIGHBORS TO OUR CITY AND
TO MY NEIGHBORHOOD AND I HOPE
SOME NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING
GETS BUILT RIGHT NEXT TO ME.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
CALL WITH THE PHONE NUMBER
ENDING ONE SIX THREE ZERO.
YOU CAN PRESS STAR SIX TO ONE
AND ADDRESS THE PLANNING
COMMISSION UP TO THREE MINUTES
COLOR ENDING AND SIX THREE ZERO
.
>> YOU HEAR ME NOW?
I CAN BECAUSE YOU HEAR ME?
YES.
OH, I'M VERY MUCH I THINK JOHN
GOD ON I BELIEVE ME CAN'T I?
IF HE CAN PUT ALL THE POSTER TO
YOUR IDEAL SOURCE WE ARE HAVING
A HARD TIME.
>> IT'S VERY, VERY FRONT HOPING
THAT I CAN'T I CAN'T HEAR
EITHER UNDERSTAND OR
IT LOOKS
LOW.
>> YOU COULD HAVE MADE IT
ADDRESS THE PLANNING FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
>> HI, THIS IS ALEX LO CALLING
IN FROM PITTSVILLE VILLAGE
WHICH IS ONE OF THE MANY
NEIGHBORHOODS IN ANN ARBOR THAT
THAT THE CURRENT DRAFT OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE LAND USE PLAN
PLUS COUNCILS IN INAPPROPRIATE
MEDDLING WOULD RESULT IN
LITERALLY BEING DOWNSIZED.
>> SO MY FIRST REQUEST TO YOU
PLEASE MOVE PITTSVILLE VILLAGE
AND ALL OTHER AR3 FOR THAT IS
CURRENTLY LISTED AS RESIDENTIAL
IN TRANSITION.
>> I WASN'T GOING TO BE
SPEAKING TONIGHT OR EVEN
WATCHING.
>> I WAS GOING TO CATCH UP
LATER BUT I GOT AN EMAIL FROM
JOHN GODFREY CONDESCENDING
ABOUT HOW THEY WERE GOING TO BE
A BUNCH OF LIBERTARIANS AT THIS
MEETING.
I'M DISAPPOINTED BUT NOT
SURPRISED THAT REALITY IS ONCE
AGAIN SHOWED HIS STATEMENTS TO
BE UNTRUE.
>> TOMORROW IS THE 12TH
ANNIVERSARY OF THE PLANNING
COMMISSION DENYING THE REQUEST
TO REZONE THREE THREE TO FIVE
PACHO TO ALLOW FOR A DUPLEX
THAT WOULD HAVE BEEN THE SAME
SIZE AS THE BURNT DOWN SIMPLEX
THAT WOULD HAVE REPLACED THE
LIGHT AND EMPTY TO THIS DAY
THIS IS JUST ONE EXAMPLE OF THE
SYSTEMIC FAILURE FROM THE
PREVIOUS COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> WE NEED TO FIX THIS.
ANN ARBOR IS A CITY WITH A LOT
OF ENVIRONMENTALISTS MYSELF
INCLUDED.
>> SO LET ME TALK FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE AS AN
ENVIRONMENTALIST.
HOUSEHOLDS WITHIN CITY LIMITS
HAVE A CARBON FOOTPRINT ROUGHLY
40 TONS OF CO2 PER YEAR.
THE CARBON FOOTPRINT OF A
HOUSEHOLD IN THE SURROUNDING
TOWNSHIPS IS CLOSER TO 70 TONS
OF CO2 PER YEAR.
>> MUCH OF THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN THESE CARBON FOOTPRINTS
COMES DOWN TO COLUSA.
>> PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THE CITY
HAVE FAR MORE FAR BETTER ACCESS
TO ALTERNATIVES TO GREAT ON
AVERAGE A TREE WILL CONSUME
TWENTY FIVE KILOGRAMS OF CO2.
SO THAT MEANS THAT ON AVERAGE
EACH HOUSEHOLD WE ALLOW IN
ANOTHER INSTEAD OF FORCING THEM
OUT TO THE TOWNSHIPS HAS AN
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT, AN
ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFIT
EQUIVALENT TO OVER OVER A
THOUSAND TREES.
>> SO EVERY HOME WE PREVENT IN
THE CITY IS EQUIVALENT TO THE
DESTRUCTION OF SEVERAL ACRES
OF FOREST.
>> THE STATUS QUO IS CLIMATE
ACTION.
RESTRICTING HOUSING IS NOT IN
THE PLAN IS KIND OF THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
CALLER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ONE SIX THREE ZERO
GIVE IT ONE MORE SHOT.
SEE IF WE CAN HEAR YOU PRESS
CHARGES SIX TO YOURSELF AND YOU
CAN TRUST THE PLANNING
COMMISSION
.
>> IT'S THE THIRD TRY.
YEAH I THINK WE STRUCK OUT OK.
>> NO OTHER ANSWER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
SEVEN ON OUR AGENDA WHICH IS
COMMUNICATION FROM
COMMISSIONERS THIS IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE COMMISSION
TO RESPOND TO AND ADDRESS
PUBLIC COMMENT IF DESIRED WITH
ANYBODY.
>> I'D LIKE TO ADD ANYTHING TO
SAY TO MODISH I WASN'T GOING TO
KICK IT OFF BUT I DIDN'T SEE
THE STAMPEDE SO I HAVE ONE
SHORT REMARK ABOUT RETAIL AND
THREE QUESTIONS FOR STAFF AND
THE SHORT REMARK ABOUT RETAIL
GIVE STAFF A MOMENT TO PREPARE
SO YES, I THINK IT IS TRUE THAT
IN SOME INSTANCES WE WILL LOSE
BELOVED OLD BUSINESSES TO NEW
MIXED USE DEVELOPMENT BUT
THAT'S THAT'S NOT THE ONLY
THING THAT HAPPENS WITH NEW
HIGHER DENSITY DEVELOPMENT.
SO IF YOU GO TO BEEKMAN ON
BROADWAY WHICH IS IN LOWERTOWN
,YOU WILL FIND AN ABSOLUTE
EXPLOSION OF DELICIOUS AND
CONVENIENT RETAIL.
THERE IS A LOWERTOWN BAR AND
CAFE.
THERE IS PLATE SUSHI.
THERE IS THE BIKE'S DOOR WHERE
YOU CAN JUST DROP OFF YOUR BIKE
AND WALK THE REST OF THE WAY TO
WORK DOWNTOWN AND THEN GET UP
LATER.
WHERE IN THIS CITY COULD YOU
SERVICE A CAR THAT WAY THERE IS
THE ORANGE MARKET WHICH SELLS
ASIAN AND AMERICAN GROCERIES
AND SCHOOL AND FOOD AT SCHOOLS
AND WE DID LOSE ONE BELOVED
INDIAN RESTAURANT FROM THAT
SITE.
IT MOVED TO IPSI BUT WE GOT
ANOTHER ONE IN ITS PLACE A
BRANCH OF MADRAS MASALA SO
MAYBE THAT'S WHAT WE'LL SEE
MORE OF .
>> WE DON'T KNOW BUT WE DID SEE
IT THERE.
MY THREE QUESTIONS FOR STAFF
HOW WILL THE NEW DESIGNATED
COMMENT PERIOD FOR SITE PLANS
THAT DON'T PROCEED TO COUNCIL
BECAUSE ASIDE AND THIS SOUNDED
I HAVE ALREADY SAID I WOULD
LIKE IT TO BE DESIGNATED THAT
IT SHOULD SIT WITH THE SITE
PLAN AND THE IT DID SOUND LIKE
A GOOD ORDER OF THINGS
DEVELOPER PRESENTATION, STAFF
PRESENTATION PUBLIC SO I'D LOVE
TO KNOW HOW WE'RE GOING TO
CODIFY THAT.
>> I THINK WE'VE MENTIONED THIS
BEFORE BUT IT'S WORTH REPEATING
AND THEN WHAT IS THE CURRENT
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN OVERLAYED
DISTRICTS AND UNDERLYING
ZONING?
EXPLAIN TO ME HOW THEY RELATE
TO EACH OTHER, THE OVERLAY AND
WHO WHO HAS THE UPPER HAND
THERE SHALL WE SAY?
AND HOW DOES AND DOES A RECENT
EDIT TO THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
PARAGRAPH THAT WILL BE
PUBLISHED IN THE THIRD REVISION
OF THE PLAN CHANGE THAT
RELATIONSHIP AND IF SO, HOW?
AND FINALLY I'M REALLY
STRUGGLING EVEN MORE TONIGHT
WITH MATH THAN USUAL AND I'D
LIKE TO UNDERSTAND HOW THE
COUNCIL'S RESOLUTION ALLOWS
THIRTY NINE FOOT BUILDINGS BY
RIGHT THAT DON'T HAVE SOLAR
PANELS AND WHEN I DO THE MATH
ON THE EFFECT OF COUNCIL'S
RESOLUTION I TAKE THE THIRTY
PERCENT HEIGHT EXCEPTION OR
BONUS AND I APPLY IT TO THE
PROPOSED THIRTY FIVE FOOT
FUTURE BUILDING SITE FOR
PARCELS CURRENTLY ZONED R ONE
IN R2 AND I COME UP WITH FORTY
FIVE POINT FIVE FEET BY RIGHT
WHICH IS SOMETHING THAT COUNCIL
DID NOT WANT TO SEE.
SO I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE CLAIM
ABOUT THIRTY NINE I DON'T I CAN
SEE THAT A BUILDING WITH SOLAR
PANELS MIGHT GO THAT HIGH
BECAUSE WE'VE SAID THAT YOUR
SOLAR PANELS CAN EXTEND BUT I
DON'T SEE HOW A BUILDING
WITHOUT SOLAR PANELS COULD DO
THAT AND I DO SEE THAT WHAT
COUNCIL HAS ASKED FOR PREVENTS
A FORTY FIVE POINT FIVE
BUILDING FORTY FIVE FOOT FORTY
FIVE POINT FIVE FOOT BUILDING
THAT HAS GIVEN US EITHER
AFFORDABLE OR SUSTAINABLE AND
YOU KNOW, MAYBE I WANT THAT BUT
I DON'T WANT THAT NOW I
CONSIDER THAT IN FIVE YEARS BUT
I THINK FORTY FIVE POINT FIVE
FEET WHETHER IT HAS
AFFORDABILITY, SUSTAINABILITY
OR AN AMUSEMENT PARK ON TOP
OF IT IS TOO MUCH.
I DON'T KNOW IF I HAVE OTHER
QUESTIONS LIKE PLEASE REMIND ME
IF I MISS THEM.
SO START AS FOR THE HEIGHT THE
CITY FIRST CITY COUNCIL
RESOLUTION RECOMMENDED A LIMIT
IN THE RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
THIS BODY RESPONDED TO THAT BY
DEDICATING BY SPECIFYING A
THREE STOREY LIMIT IN
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS THERE IS
NO SPECIFIC HEIGHT LIMIT AS
PART OF THAT.
SO AS FOR ANY SORT OF SPECIFIC
ESTIMATE THIRTY NINE FEET OR
ANYTHING ELSE, THIS COMMENT
DOESN'T ADDRESS THAT.
BUT I DO WANT TO I JUST WANT TO
BE CLEAR THE WAY WE MEASURE
HEIGHT IS BY THE TOP OF A FLAT
ROOF OR THE MIDPOINT OF A GABLE
.
SO IF THE REGULATION WERE THAT
WE ALLOWED THREE STOREY
BUILDING AND THAT THREE STOREY
BUILDING WERE TO GET TO HAVE A
HEIGHT DESIGNATION THAT ALLOWED
THAT IT WAS 30 OR 35 FEET OR
SOMETHING ALONG THOSE LINES YOU
COULD HAVE A BUILDING TALLER
THAN 30 OR 35 FEET BECAUSE
YOU'RE GOING TO GET HALF OF THE
GABLE.
SO I THERE ARE ENDLESS
POSSIBILITIES BUT AGAIN THAT'S
HOW WE MEASURE THE HEIGHT OF A
BUILDING.
>> SO BUT ABSENT THIS COMPLAINT
SPECIFYING THAT IT'S
SPECULATIVE CURRENTLY IN MOST
OF OUR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
FOR EXAMPLE, WE MANDATE A CAP
OF THIRTY FEET IN HEIGHT AND
SIMILARLY THAT COULD BE
REALIZED WITH A BUILDING THAT
THAT IS THE MIDPOINT OF THE
GABLES THAT MIGHT RESULT IN A
THIRTY EIGHT FOOT BUILDING OR A
THIRTY NINE FOOT BUILDING IF
THE IF THAT 30 FOOT POINT WAS
HALF OF WHATEVER THE HEIGHT
OF THAT GAP WAS.
SO YOU COULD IMAGINE DOING LEGO
MATH AND COME UP WITH DIFFERENT
SCENARIOS AS LONG AS THAT
HEIGHT IS MEASURED AT THAT
MIDPOINT.
>> SO THAT'S THAT QUESTION AS
TO OVERLAY DISTRICTS I PRESUME
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
HISTORIC DISTRICT BUT WE ALSO
THOSE ARE ACTUALLY DISTINCT
DISTRICTS OUTSIDE THE UDC.
WE ALSO HAVE UDC OVERLAY
DISTRICTS WITH ZONING AND
HISTORIC DISTRICTS COEXIST ONE
DOES NOT OVERRIDE THE OTHER AND
THEY ARE INDEPENDENTLY
CREATED AND ESTABLISHED BY THE
CITY COUNCIL.
SO ANY CHANGES TO THE ZONING
HAVE TO BE COMPLIED WITH.
SIMILARLY, ANY REQUIREMENTS BY
BEING PART OF A HISTORIC
DISTRICT OR FOR THAT MATTER ANY
OVERLAY DISTRICT IN THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE WOULD HAVE TO
BE ABIDED FOR AS WELL.
ONE DOES NOT
OVERRIDE THE
OTHER.
YOU HAVE TO SATISFY BOTH
REQUIREMENTS.
SO IF FOR EXAMPLE A PROPERTY IN
A HISTORIC DISTRICT WAS ZONED
TO ALLOW 40 FEET IN HEIGHT BUT
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FOUND THAT IT WAS A
CONTRIBUTING STRUCTURE AND THEY
LIMITED THE ABILITY TO GO TO
THAT.
THE ZONING DOES NOT OVERRIDE
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION STANDARDS IN ORDER
TO LIMIT DEVELOPMENT.
THAT'S RIGHT.
AND I THINK THAT'S WHERE SOME
OF THE VOICES AT THIS TABLE AND
WE'VE HEARD FROM MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC THERE CONFLICTING
OPINIONS ABOUT WHETHER THAT'S A
GOOD THING OR NOT A GOOD THING
.
WHAT WAS YOUR FIRST QUESTION?
THE COMMENT PERIOD?
>> OH, THANK YOU.
IT'S NOT IN CODE SO WE HAVE NOT
BEEN EXPLICIT IN THE BYLAWS BUT
FOR YOU WILL SEE BYLAWS
LANGUAGE SPECIFICALLY PROVIDING
THAT THE PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD
IS FOR ANY ITEM THAT IS NOT
CAPABLE OF CARING FOR A
DEDICATED TOPIC SPECIFIC PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD.
WE ABSOLUTELY INTEND TO PUT
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIODS WITH
EACH ITEM AS A PUBLIC HEARING
AND ACCORDINGLY THE BYLAWS
REFLECT OUR PROPOSED LIMITATION
THAT DURING THE GENERAL PUBLIC
COMMENT IT WOULD BE
INAPPROPRIATE TO COMMENT ON
THOSE SITE PLANS AT THAT TIME
SIMILAR TO A PUBLIC HEARING.
SO IN FACT IT IS IN OUR BYLAW
REVISIONS TO THE BYLAWS YOU
COULD ADD IT THE BALANCE THAT
EXPLICITLY SAY WE WILL HOLD A
PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD THEY SAY
THAT WE ARE GOING TO STRUCTURE
OUR AGENDA IN OUR SO THAT
PUBLIC COMMENTS AND PUBLIC
HEARINGS ON TOPICS SPECIFIC
ITEMS ARE GIVEN THE SAME WE ARE
GIVEN THE SAME.
>> OK, SO IF DESIRED WE COULD
ADD A PROVISION THAT SAYS ANY
SITE WILL HAVE A PUBLIC COMMENT
PERIOD IS OUR INTENTION TO DO
THAT.
BUT YOU COULD ALSO PUT THAT IN
THE BYLAWS IF DESIRED.
IS THERE ANY REASON NOT TO NOT
NOT JUST A FEW IN THE FUTURE
YOU WANT TO CHANGE THAT?
IT WOULD REQUIRE AMENDMENT TO
THE BYLAWS WHICH IS JUST A
PRACTICE.
>> SO DOES IT SEEM TOO
RESTRICTIVE TO ADD IT?
NO, OK, SO LET ME JUST READ
BACK THE NOTES THAT I TOOK IN
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT PART SO
IF A PROPERTY PROPOSED FOR A
HISTORIC DISTRICT EXCEEDED WHAT
THE HISTORIC DISTRICT
COMMISSION FELT WAS CONSISTENT
WITH THEIR STANDARDS AIR
STANDARDS, THE ZONING DOES NOT
OVERRIDE THAT.
>> THE ZONING DOES NOT OVERRIDE
THAT DECISION.
THANK YOU, MS.
MANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS.
>> COMMISSIONER MILLS, I WOULD
AGAIN LIKE TO THANK FOLKS WHO
HAVE TAKEN TIME TO GRAPPLE WITH
THIS DOCUMENT BEFORE US THAT
CONTINUES THAT AGAIN I'LL
REITERATE THE OFFICIAL PUBLIC
COMMENT PERIOD HASN'T EVEN
LAUNCHED YET.
SO ALL OF THIS IS PREAMBLE TO
ACTUAL OFFICIAL COMMENT PERIOD.
SO THANK YOU THANK YOU FOR
ENGAGING AND ASKING QUESTIONS
AND GIVING US FEEDBACK FOR
COMMENTS SO THE DRAFT THAT DOES
GO OUT CAN REFLECT WHAT WE'RE
HEARING.
THE OTHER THING THAT I WANT TO
SAY IS TONIGHT THERE WAS MORE
QUESTIONS OR CONTENT ON
SUSTAINABILITY AND SOLAR WHICH
IS WHAT I DO IN MY DAY JOB THAN
WE'VE HEARD BEFORE AND I TWO
THINGS ARE KIND OF I NEED TO
CHECK ON THE STATUS OF THEM
BECAUSE I LOST TRACK OF THEM
WHEN I WENT ON VACATION ONE ON
THE SOLAR I KNOW THAT I HAVE A
COLLEAGUE IN TORDJMAN COLLEGE
WHO HAS DONE ANALYSIS OF WHAT
ADDITIONAL SHADE MIGHT BE
EXPECTED WHEN YOU MOVE FROM A
30 FOOT MAXIMUM TO A THIRTY
FIVE FOOT MAXIMUM.
AND SO I KNOW THAT THAT IS I'VE
SEEN I'VE SEEN A GRAPHIC I'LL
FIND IT AND CIRCULATE IT AND
MAKE SURE THAT THIS BODY HAS IT
AND THAT IT'S IN THE RECORD.
THE OTHER THING IS A COUPLE
OF YEARS AGO ACTUALLY I HAD A
STUDENT THROUGH OUR OFFICE THAT
WORKED WITH THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY HERE IN THE
CITY TO TRY TO UNDERSTAND TO
TRY TO GET SOME NUMBERS OF ON
WHAT EMISSIONS ARE ASSOCIATED
WITH UNITS BUILT IN THE CITY
VERSUS SOME OF THE PLACES WHERE
PEOPLE ARE COMMUTING IN FROM
AND SHE GRADUATED BUT I AM
GOING TO GO BACK AND DIG OUT
THE DATA.
IT MIGHT NOT BE PRETTY BUT I'M
GOING TO BUT I THINK THAT THAT
WILL GROUND IT.
>> I WHAT WE HEARD ABOUT KIND
OF TRANSPORTATION EMISSIONS
DRIVING THE DIFFERENCE IS
ABSOLUTELY TRUE AND IT'S NOT
JUST FROM THE COMMUTING.
IT'S NOT JUST LIKE COMMUTING IN
SEVEN MILES OR WHATEVER FROM
ONE OF THE SURROUNDING
TOWNSHIPS.
IT'S IT'S IT'S THAT THEY DON'T
HAVE ACCESS TO WALKABLE AS MANY
OPPORTUNITIES TO DO ERRANDS
THROUGH WALKING.
>> SO I'LL BE ABLE TO PULL OUT
THOSE NUMBERS.
ANOTHER ELEMENT OF THIS TO
THOSE THAT UNITS IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR TEND TO BE
SMALLER.
>> THEY TEND TO BE ATTACHED AND
BY THAT FACT THE UNIT
THEMSELVES CAN HOUSE THE SAME
FAMILY OR PERSON PRODUCES FEWER
EMISSIONS IN OPERATING IT.
AND SO ANYWAY THERE'S THERE'S
SOME NUMBERS ASSOCIATED WITH
THAT THAT I'LL BE YOU CAN
E-MAIL ME OR I'LL ALSO BRING TO
THE COMMISSION FOR THAT
, YOU
KNOW, OK, I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
SAY THANK YOU TO EVERYBODY.
I WAS REFLECTING BACK DURING
THIS PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD THAT
WE'VE BEEN FIVE MONTHS AGO WAS
THE FIRST TIME THAT I CHAIRED A
MEETING AND THAT WAS A THREE
HOUR PUBLIC COMMENT AND I THINK
THAT WE'VE BEEN PRETTY
CONSISTENTLY HAVING VERY LONG
PUBLIC COMMENTS SINCE THEN.
BUT I THINK WE'VE GOTTEN A LOT
OF REALLY GOOD ENGAGEMENT AND I
APPRECIATE EVERYONE THAT
CONTINUES TO ENGAGE WITH US.
ALL RIGHT.
WITH THAT I WILL MOVE ON TO
ITEM NUMBER EIGHT ON THE AGENDA
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
OUR NEXT BUSINESS MEETING
MANAGER.
>> YES, I HAVE ONE.
THE PUBLIC HEARING SCHEDULED
FOR THE AUGUST 19TH MEETING.
THIS IS PROPOSED MOST
AMENDMENTS TO THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE CHAPTER FIFTY
FIVE OF THE CODE OF THE CITY IN
ORDER TO SECTION FIVE POINT ONE
FIVE PERMITTED USE TABLES
SECTION FIVE ONE SIXTEEN POINT
ONE RESIDENTIAL USES SECTION
FIVE POINT SIXTEEN POINT SIX
ACCESSORY USERS AND SECTION
FIVE POINT THIRTY SEVEN POINT
TO SPECIFIC TERMS RELATED TO
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS AND
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SECTION FIVE
POINT FIVE FIVE POINT ONE FIVE
MAY BE AMENDED TO ALLOW TWO
FAMILY DWELLINGS IN SINGLE
FAMILY DISTRICTS WHEN
DESIGNATED AS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING DWELLING UNITS SECTION
FIVE POINT SIXTY OF ONE MAY BE
AMENDED TO PROVIDE FOR AN
AFFORDABLE HOUSING DWELLING
BONUS AND SINGLE FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS.
SECTION FIVE SIXTEEN POINT SIX
MAY BE AMENDED TO ALLOW LARGER
ACCESSORY UNITS WITHIN WITH
CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS WITHIN
DESIGNATED AS AFFORDABLE
HOUSING UNITS AND SECTION FIVE
POINT THIRTY SEVEN POINT TWO
MAY BE AMENDED TO PROVIDE A
DEFINITION OF AFFORDABLE
HOUSING IN AN OWNERSHIP CONTEXT
.
VERY CONCISE.
THANK YOU.
AGENDA ITEM NUMBER NINE
UNFINISHED BUSINESS WE HAVE
NONE SO WE WILL MOVE ON TO ITEM
NUMBER TEN REGULAR BUSINESS ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN WOODLAWN AVENUE
REZONING WITH AREA PLANNING
WAIVER W A PETITION TO REZONE
ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN WOODLAND
AVENUE FROM PARKING TO SEE ONE
LOCAL COMMERCIAL ELIMINATING
THE P DISTRICT ON THIS BLOCK
AND EXPANDING THE EXISTING C1
DISTRICT WITH A REQUEST TO
WAIVE THE AREA PLAN REQUIREMENT
AS NO DEVELOPMENT IS PROPOSED.
>> WE WILL START WITH A
PETITION OR PRESENTATION
.
WE GOT IT CUED UP THE
PRESENTATION IS GREAT BUT CROSS
YOUR FINGERS.
I KLOSTER
THINK.
THANK YOU.
MY NAME IS BILL BRINKERHOFF.
I'M ONE OF THE OWNERS OF ARGUS
FARM STOP ALONG WITH MY WIFE
CATHY AND WITH LAURA MATTONI,
OUR GENERAL MANAGER.
WE'RE ACTUALLY COMING UP ON
ELEVEN YEARS OF RUNNING NARGUS
IN ANN ARBOR AND IN TWO
LOCATIONS THAT ARE BOTH KIND
OF IN NEIGHBORHOODS AND KIND
OF GERMANE TO ALL THESE
PREVIOUS COMMENTS.
TONIGHT'S REQUEST WAS A
REZONING REQUEST FOR THE
PACKARD LOCATION, THE PACKARD
LOCATION WHERE THE MARKET IS
HAS A SEPARATE PARCEL BEHIND
IT.
THAT HAS BEEN A LEGACY ZONED
PARKING AREA ALTHOUGH WE DON'T
USE IT FOR PARKING.
WE HAVE CUSTOMER PARKING ON THE
STREET.
IT'S BEEN USED AS A SERVICE
AREA FOR OUR GUESTS WHERE THE
FARMS DROP OFF AND LEAVE.
THEY THEY BRING GOODS IN THEIR
FARM CRATES AND WE STORE FARM
CRATES BACK THERE AND SO WE'VE
BEEN WORKING WITH THE WITH
ALEXIS AND HER STAFF TO FIGURE
OUT A BETTER WAY AS WE GROW IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO BE ABLE TO
STAY THERE.
WE'VE HAD A GREAT RECEPTION
FROM THE NEIGHBORHOOD AND THE
RESULT HAS BEEN A REZONING
REQUEST THAT WOULD LET US HAVE
A LITTLE BIT MORE FUNCTIONAL
AND ESTHETIC SERVICE AREA.
WE DON'T HAVE ANY PLANS FOR
DEVELOPMENT THAT WE'RE
PROPOSING BUT MORE SO TO HAVE
SOMETHING THAT'S A LITTLE MORE
ESTHETIC AND FUNCTIONAL RIGHT
NOW YOU'RE NOT ALLOWED TO STORE
STUFF IN A PARKING ZONED AREA,
FOR EXAMPLE.
AND SO THAT'S THE THAT'S THE
BACKGROUND I THINK THE REZONING
REQUEST WE THINK IT'S ALIGNED
WITH ANN ARBOR IS TWENTY MINUTE
NEIGHBORHOOD CONCEPT.
IT REALLY DOES SUPPORT THE
FARMS THAT ARE SELLING THROUGH
THIS THE ABILITY FOR NEIGHBORS
TO JUST WALK OVER AND BUY
LOCALLY
RAISED AND FARM GOODS.
AND WE APPRECIATE YOUR
CONSIDERATION AND I GUESS I
HAVEN'T FLIP THROUGH ANY OF MY
SLIDES BUT THESE ARE THIS IS
THE LOCATION IN HIGHLIGHTED IN
YELLOW THERE WHICH IS AGAIN
BEHIND THE MARKET AND IT'S
PROTECTED BY TREES.
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S SECLUDED BACK
THERE BUT IT NEEDS TO BE
REZONED I THINK TO BE
APPROPRIATE FOR OUR ONGOING USE
AND THAT WAS THE KIND OF THE
VERBIAGE OF WHAT I JUST WENT
THROUGH.
SO THANK YOU THAT.
ARE THERE ANY QUESTIONS WE WILL
DO SOME PRESENTATION THEN WE'LL
DO PUBLIC COMMENT AND THEN WE
WILL LET YOU KNOW.
OK, THANK YOU.
ALL RIGHT.
STEP PRESENTATION PLANNER
SHAKE.
>> YEAH.
SO I'M PINCH HITTING FOR
PROLEXIC ON THIS ONE I'LL BE
PENSIONE FOR MARIJANA ON THE
OTHER SIDE ON AND SO GIVE ME A
LITTLE BIT OF TIME YOU HAVE
SOME SOME CURVE TO KEEP WITH
THE BASEBALL METAPHORS SO THE
STAFF COORDINATION FOR THIS IS
THE AREA PLAN WAIVER BE GRANTED
AND THE REZONING PETITION BE
APPROVED BECAUSE ADEQUATE
JUSTIFICATION HAS BEEN PROVIDED
TO DEVIATE FROM THE FUTURE LAND
USE RECOMMENDATION OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND THE
PETITION IS CONSISTENT WITH THE
OVERALL GOALS OF THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
SO JUST A LITTLE BIT
OF BACKGROUND INFORMATION.
THE SITE IS CURRENTLY ZONED P
WHICH IS ALMOST AT THIS POINT A
LEGACY ZONING DISTRICT THAT
SEPARATE WAS CREATED AT LEAST
SINCE NINETEEN SIXTY THREE AS
SEPARATION BETWEEN THE ZONES
AREAS ZONE C ONE AND THE
NEIGHBORHOODS AND IT WOULD ALL
HE'S ZONING DISTRICTS WHICH ARE
LESS AND LESS COMMON IN THE
CITY.
WE'RE BASICALLY USED AS THIS
BUFFER AND ONLY ALLOWED FOR
PARKING THE SITE IN QUESTION.
THE PARCEL IN QUESTION IS A
TOTAL OF FOUR THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE SQUARE
FEET OF WHICH TWO THOUSAND SIX
HUNDRED AND FOUR SQUARE FEET IS
THE ACTUAL PARCEL.
AND BECAUSE OUR ZONING
DISTRICTS GO TO THE MIDPOINT
LINE OF THE THE STREETS IN THIS
CASE WOODLAWN AVENUE WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT TWO THOUSAND SIX
AND FOUR SQUARE FEET OF AREA
PLUS THE EXTENSION TO THE
MIDPOINT LINE OF THAT RIGHT
AWAY.
SO THE BUILDING AT 12 14 PACARD
ADJACENT TO THIS HAS EXISTED OR
WAS AT LEAST EXISTING NINETEEN
THIRTEEN ADDRESSES TWELVE
HUNDRED PACARD AT THE TIME
TWELVE TWENTY FOUR PACARD
APPEARS ON NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN
AERIAL PHOTOS THE BUILDING AT
TWELVE TWENTY SIX PACARD SEEMS
TO HAVE BEEN CONSTRUCTED IN THE
NINETEEN FIFTIES AS SOME
PORTIONS OF THE ORIGINAL P
DISTRICT WHERE WE ZONED TO SEE
ONE LEAVING THE BOUNDARIES AS
THEY ARE TODAY.
SO ADDITIONALLY THE P DISTRICT
HAS HAS SHRUNKEN OVER TIME
ESSENTIALLY AND ESSENTIALLY IT
NO LONGER SERVES AS A BUFFER
AND THIS IS THE ONLY THE
ELIMINATION OF THIS OR THE
REZONING OF THIS PARCEL WILL
ELIMINATE THE LAST PARCEL IN
THIS NEIGHBORHOOD TO MAKE IT
CONSISTENT WITH THE REST OF THE
ZONING THE ADJACENT ZONING
ADJACENT PARCELS TO THE WEST,
NORTH AND EAST.
AND FINALLY REGARDING THE AREA
PLAN WAIVER PER SECTION FIVE
TWENTY NINE TEN F AN AREA PLAN
OR SITE PLAN IS REQUIRED AS
PART OF A REZONING PETITION.
BUT THE PLANNING COMMISSION MAY
WAIVE THE AREA PLAN REQUIREMENT
UPON DETERMINATION THAT NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS PROPOSED AND A
SURVEY OF THE EXISTING
CONDITIONS IS PROVIDED.
IN THIS CASE NO NEW
CONSTRUCTION IS BEING PROPOSED
AND A SURVEY OF EXISTING
CONDITIONS HAS BEEN PROVIDED.
THEREFORE STAFF DOES RECOMMEND
GRANTING THE AREA PLANNING
WAIVER AS WELL.
>> THANK YOU.
WE WILL MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THE PROPOSED
ONE ZERO ZERO SEVEN WOODLAWN
AVENUE REZONING APPLICATION.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PRESENT THEN REMOTE
PARTICIPANTS TO SPEAK REMOTELY
PESTANA ON THE PHONE OR USE THE
RIGHT HAND FEATURE IN ZOOM FOR
PHONE ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN
SEVEN EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE
FOUR SEVEN IN AN HOUR MEETING
AT NINE SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX
THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY
STAFF WILL IDENTIFY CALLERS FOR
THE LAST THREE DIGITS THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME FOR
ZOOME USERS YOU'LL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A
QUIET AREA AND ANY BACKGROUND
NOISE ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
>> IS THERE ANYONE THAT YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK?
HELLO MACZKA ABOUT TWENTY
SEVENTEEN FERRIS STREET AND
LOVER OF ARGUS FOOD.
OUR GUEST IS AN INCREDIBLE
BUSINESS IN THE CITY.
I DON'T THINK I'VE EVER WALKED
INTO ONE OF THEIR LOCATIONS AND
NOT BOUGHT A COFFEE OR A PASTRY
OR BREAD OR GROCERIES.
THEY DO SUCH GOOD FOR OUR CITY
AND THEY'VE REALLY SUPPORTIVE
OF THE BIKE COMMUNITY.
THEY STAYED OPEN LATE FOR BIKE
PARTY TO BE ABLE TO ENERGOUS SO
I CAN'T SAY ENOUGH GOOD THINGS
ABOUT OUR GUESTS.
MY ONLY HOPE FOR THIS SITE IS
THAT THERE IS MORE BIKE PARKING
EVENTUALLY ADDED I THINK
THERE'S NOT ENOUGH BIKE PARKING
IN THE AREA THAT'S ALL.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK?
>> IS THERE ANYONE KNOW COME ON
UP.
THANK YOU.
YEAH.
CHINEN TWO EIGHT SEVEN ZERO
OAKDALE I AM JUST HERE AS A BIG
FAN OF ARGUS.
BOTH LOCATIONS LIBERTY AND
PATRIOT ARE JUST GREAT HAVENS
TO GET FOOD, WALK IN, GET WATER
AS A BIKER WHO JUST NEED WATER
,BE ABLE TO TALK WITH OTHER
PEOPLE THERE AND EXPERIENCE
GREAT LOCAL PRODUCE.
I LEARNED THIS WEEK ACTUALLY
THAT WASHINGTON COUNTY IS I
THINK THE FASTEST GROWING
COUNTY FOR FARMS IN ALL
OF MICHIGAN AND THAT'S IN THE
CONTEXT OF THE FACT THAT ALL
THE OTHER COUNTIES ARE ACTUALLY
GENERALLY DECLINING AND LOCAL
PD IS IT IS REALLY RARE BUT I
THINK ARKANSAS IS A BIG PART
OF WHY IT'S GROWN IN THE PAST
TEN YEARS SO YEAH, I REALLY
WANT TO PUT OUR GUESTS AND I
HOPE THAT YOU PUT THE REZONING
.
THANK YOU.
ANYBODY ELSE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
>> ANYONE WHO WOULD LIKE TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION REMOTELY
?
YES.
ALEX NO.
>> YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES TO
ADDRESS THE COMMISSION ALWAYS
CALLING FOR PEOPLE HOPEFULLY
SOMETHING LIKE THAT THAT I WAS
SPEAKING ABOUT EARLIER WHICH IS
APPARENTLY NOW SAGE.
>> I JUST WANT TO SAY THAT WE
SHOULD BE ELIMINATING THE
THINGS ALTOGETHER AND THE
PROTECTION OF TO HAVE SO I AM
FOR THIS TALKING ON THESE ZONES
.
THANK YOU.
NO OTHER HANDS RAISE.
>> THANK YOU.
I WILL THEN CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND READ THE PROPOSED
MOTION.
THE NRA PLANNING COMMISSION
WAIVES THE AREA REQUIREMENT AND
RECOMMENDS THAT THE MAYOR AND
CITY COUNCIL APPROVE THE ONE
ZERO ZERO SEVEN WOODLAWN AVENUE
REZONING FROM PARK TO SEE ONE
LOCAL BUSINESS MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER MILLS.
>> WE ARE IN DISCUSSION.
>> WOULD ANYBODY LIKE TO
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBY SO AS
THE ARGUS PEOPLE KNOW I OFTEN
VISITOR OF BOTH SIDES SO I.
I WALK BY THIS SIDE A LOT AND
IT WASN'T UNTIL I READ THE
AGENDA WHERE I WAS LIKE OH
THAT'S WHAT'S GOING ON BECAUSE
IT DOES SEEM LIKE A LITTLE
WEIRD.
IT DOESN'T IT JUST SEEMED LIKE
OH WE COULD USE THIS WE BEING
YOU ALL COULD USE THIS IN A
BETTER WAY AND SO THE DISTRICTS
I'VE WE'VE SEEN A LOT
OF DISTRICTS COME BEFORE
PLANNING OVER THE YEARS AND
THEY'RE REALLY A VESTIGE OF A
LONG PAST TIME WHERE WE THOUGHT
CARS WERE GOING TO BE THE THING
THAT PROTECTED US FROM
BUSINESSES AND NOW WE REALIZE
THAT WE DON'T REALLY CARS TO
PROTECT US FROM BUSINESSES THAT
ACTUALLY CARS ARE MUCH MORE
INTRUSIVE THAN BUSINESSES ARE
WITH SLAMMING DOORS AND LIGHTS
AND THINGS SO I WAS HAPPY TO
SEE THIS COME FORWARD AND I AM
HAPPY TO VOTE FOR IT BECAUSE I
THINK THE DISTRICT ALONE IS THE
DISTRICTS ARE NOT GREAT AND
KNOWING THAT THERE'S A REALLY
GOOD LOCAL BUSINESS JUST MAKES
IT THAT MUCH EASIER.
BUT WE SHOULD ALSO THEY'RE NOT
GREAT ANYWAY.
SO EVEN IF YOU WERE TERRIBLE
BUT YOU ARE GREAT SO I'M HAPPY
TO VOTE FOR THIS.
>> SO COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE
GAVE THE HISTORY OF THE PARKING
DISTRICTS REALLY WELL.
TYPICALLY I'M ONE WHO SAYS LIKE
LET'S SEE LIKE WHAT ARE YOU
REALLY GOING TO DO HERE?
LIKE LET'S NOT WAVE THE AREA
PLAN AND THIS PARKING IS
SURROUNDED BY COMMERCIAL.
YOU COULD EXTEND THE COMMERCIAL
ANYWAY SO JUST PUTTING IT AS
PART OF COMMERCIAL LIKE WE CAN
IMAGINE WHAT THIS WILL MEAN FOR
THERE IT'S CLOSING THAT DONUT
HOLE WHICH TOTALLY MAKES SENSE
.
SO I'M BOTH IN SUPPORT OF THE
REZONING AND IN FAVOR
OF WAIVING THE AREA PLAN
REQUIREMENT.
>> I THINK THAT THIS IS REALLY
SENSIBLE BECAUSE SURELY YEAH,
PRETTY MUCH EVERYTHING EVERYONE
SAID TO THE EXTENT WHICH THE
REZONING IS NECESSARY FROM
PARKING TO SEE ONE YES.
NECESSARY FOR THE PURPOSE THE
EFFICIENT UTILIZATION OF LANDS
THAT SATISFY HOW THE REZONING
AFFECTS PUBLIC WELFARE AND
PROPERTY RIGHTS OF PERSONS.
YEAH 20 MINUTES CITY I GREW UP
WALKING FROM TAP IN MIDDLE
SCHOOL HOME THROUGH THIS WE
USED TO BE A VACUUM STORE IF I
REMEMBER CORRECTLY IT'S KIND
OF STRANGE BUT IT'S MUCH BETTER
NOW.
I WISH THIS WAS ACTUALLY WHEN I
WAS A MIDDLE SCHOOL STUDENT.
>> HOW REZONING IS ADVANTAGEOUS
TO THE CITY AGAIN PROMOTION
OF THE NORMAL RIGHTS
TRANSPORTATION AS WELL AS
ACCESS.
I THINK THAT'S GREAT AND THEN
HOW THE PARTICULAR LOCATION
WILL MEET THE COMMUNITY'S
SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
OF POTENTIAL USERS AGAIN ALL
THESE THINGS ARE SATISFIED I
WILL BE IN SUPPORT OF WAITING
THE AREA PLAN AS WELL AS VOTED
IN FAVOR OF THE RESULTS.
THANK YOU.
AND FOR CLARIFICATION PURPOSES
THIS GOES TO CITY COUNCIL
OR
REZONING.
SO THIS IS A RECOMMENDATION ON
THE WAIVER OF THE AREA PLAN.
I THINK HAPPENS HERE.
>> IS THAT RIGHT?
MR. LEONARD IS NODDING HIS
HEAD.
YES, THAT'S CORRECT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER NORTON.
THIS JUST FOR THE RECORD THIS
SOUNDS TOTALLY SENSIBLE THING
FOR ME TO DO.
I'M JUST REALLY I'M JUST A
TECHNICAL QUESTION FOR STAFF IF
WE'RE WAIVING THE AREA PLAN
PRESUMABLY AT SOME POINT IF
THEY DO PROPOSE TO DO SOME
CONSTRUCTION THEN SOME SITE
PLAN WILL REVIEW WILL HAPPEN OR
WHATEVER IS REQUIRED UNDER THE
ORDINANCE.
SO YEAH, IT'S JUST IT COULD BE
IT COULD BE A SICK MAN.
IT COULD JUST BE A BUILDING
PERMIT.
IT DEPENDS ON WHAT THEY'RE
DOING.
IT REQUIRES THAT OUR ORDINANCE
REQUIRE EITHER A REZONING OR
EITHER A STATE OR AREA TO
ACCOMPANY ANY ZONING UNLESS
THIS LABOR IS TO KIND OVERLY
PROTECTIVE MAYBE YEAH.
YEAH OK.
ALL RIGHT THAT'S FINE.
>> THANK YOU.
THIS SOUNDS LIKE A COMPLETELY
LOGICAL THING TO DO.
>> I'M HAPPY TO SUPPORT IT.
>> ANY OTHER COMMENTS I WAS
GOING TO ASK THE EXACT SAME
QUESTION SO THANK YOU.
UH UM WE READY FOR A VOTE?
OK, THE ROLL CALL ROLL CALL
VOTE YES PLEASE.
>> COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER MEL YES.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
COMMISSIONER.
YES.
>> YES.
COMMISSIONER.
MOTION CARRIED THE COUNCIL AND
>> YES.
THANKS FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
MOTION CARRIED THE COUNCIL AND
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANKS FOR YOUR PATIENCE.
LET'S MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
>> ALL RIGHT.
TEN B REGULAR BUSINESS BUT
LET'S MOVE ON TO ITEM NUMBER
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AN HOUR
TEN B REGULAR BUSINESS BUT
WE'RE ROAD REZONING AND SITE
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE AN HOUR
PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
WE'RE ROAD REZONING AND SITE
A PETITION TO REZONE TWENTY
PLAN FOR CITY COUNCIL APPROVAL.
FIVE TWENTY FIVE AN HOUR
A PETITION TO REZONE TWENTY
BRISTLING FROM OUR OFFICE
FIVE TWENTY FIVE AN HOUR
DISTRICT TO OUR FORTY
BRISTLING FROM OUR OFFICE
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
DISTRICT TO OUR FORTY
AND A SITE PLANNED TO CONSTRUCT
MULTIFAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT
A HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO
AND A SITE PLANNED TO CONSTRUCT
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
A HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO
THE BUILDING WOULD BE FIVE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS.
STORIES WITH ALMOST THREE
THE BUILDING WOULD BE FIVE
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY THOUSAND
STORIES WITH ALMOST THREE
SQUARE FEET OF FLOOR AREA AND
HUNDRED AND EIGHTY THOUSAND
INCLUDE TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY
SQUARE FEET OF FLOOR AREA AND
SEVEN VEHICLE PARKING SPACES
INCLUDE TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY
AND ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOUR
SEVEN VEHICLE PARKING SPACES
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES.
AND ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY FOUR
AS PART OF THE PROPOSAL
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES.
EXISTING ON ANOTHER SWING THAT
AS PART OF THE PROPOSAL
WOULD BE MODIFIED A NEW CURB
EXISTING ON ANOTHER SWING THAT
WOULD BE ADDED ON.
WOULD BE MODIFIED A NEW CURB
I'M ASSUMING THAT IT WOULD BE
WOULD BE ADDED ON.
ADDED ON INTO SERVICE WOULD BE
I'M ASSUMING THAT IT WOULD BE
INSTALLED ON SITE ONE ACROSS A
ADDED ON INTO SERVICE WOULD BE
DRIVE AND ANOTHER ACROSS AN
INSTALLED ON SITE ONE ACROSS A
OBVIOUSLY ROAD FOUR POINT ONE
DRIVE AND ANOTHER ACROSS AN
SIX ACRE SITE IS CURRENTLY
OBVIOUSLY ROAD FOUR POINT ONE
VACANT AND STEP RECOMMENDS
SIX ACRE SITE IS CURRENTLY
APPROVAL.
VACANT AND STEP RECOMMENDS
>> WE WILL START WITH OUR
APPROVAL.
PETITION PRESENTATION.
>> WE WILL START WITH OUR
GOOD EVENING.
PETITION PRESENTATION.
MY NAME IS ANDY JACOBS AND I'M
GOOD EVENING.
A PRINCIPAL IN CRANBERG VILLAGE
MY NAME IS ANDY JACOBS AND I'M
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP.
A PRINCIPAL IN CRANBERG VILLAGE
THE OWNER OF THE SUBJECT PASSO
LIMITED PARTNERSHIP.
AND THE ADJACENT CRANBROOK
THE OWNER OF THE SUBJECT PASSO
SHOPPING CENTER.
AND THE ADJACENT CRANBROOK
MY PARTNERS AND I HAVE
SHOPPING CENTER.
EXTENSIVE REAL ESTATE
MY PARTNERS AND I HAVE
DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
EXTENSIVE REAL ESTATE
EXPERIENCE IN ANN ARBOR AND
DEVELOPMENT AND MANAGEMENT
PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP DATING BACK
EXPERIENCE IN ANN ARBOR AND
SOME THIRTY YEARS, SOME OF OUR
PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP DATING BACK
PROJECTS INCLUDE WATERS PLAYS
SOME THIRTY YEARS, SOME OF OUR
SHOPPING CENTER WITH KOHL'S AND
PROJECTS INCLUDE WATERS PLAYS
BEST BUY DICK'S AND TOTAL WINE
SHOPPING CENTER WITH KOHL'S AND
CENTREPOINT APARTMENTS IN
BEST BUY DICK'S AND TOTAL WINE
PITTSFIELD AND THE RECENTLY
CENTREPOINT APARTMENTS IN
OPENED VANGUARD HOTEL.
PITTSFIELD AND THE RECENTLY
>> WE HAVE OWNERS OF THIS
OPENED VANGUARD HOTEL.
PARCEL AND CRANBERG VILLAGE
>> WE HAVE OWNERS OF THIS
CENTER SINCE 2004 AND WE WERE
PARCEL AND CRANBERG VILLAGE
RESPONSIBLE FOR BRINGING WHOLE
CENTER SINCE 2004 AND WE WERE
FOODS AND RCI TO THE SITE WHEN
RESPONSIBLE FOR BRINGING WHOLE
MERVYN'S CLOSED THIS PARCEL HAS
FOODS AND RCI TO THE SITE WHEN
BEEN ZONED OFFICE SINCE THE
MERVYN'S CLOSED THIS PARCEL HAS
1980S.
BEEN ZONED OFFICE SINCE THE
IT WAS CREATED SOME FORTY THREE
1980S.
YEARS AGO AND AS PART OF THE
IT WAS CREATED SOME FORTY THREE
CRANBROOK SUBDIVISION WHICH
YEARS AGO AND AS PART OF THE
INCLUDED THE CONSTRUCTION AT
CRANBROOK SUBDIVISION WHICH
THE TIME OF THE DRIVE AND THE
INCLUDED THE CONSTRUCTION AT
ASSOCIATED WATER AND SEWER
THE TIME OF THE DRIVE AND THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THE PROPOSED
ASSOCIATED WATER AND SEWER
PROJECT IS CALLED THE CRESCENT
INFRASTRUCTURE THE PROPOSED
BECAUSE OF THE SHAPE OF THE
PROJECT IS CALLED THE CRESCENT
BUILDING WHICH WAS DICTATED BY
BECAUSE OF THE SHAPE OF THE
THE TRIANGULAR SHAPE OF THE
BUILDING WHICH WAS DICTATED BY
PROPERTY.
THE TRIANGULAR SHAPE OF THE
WHAT ARE WE TRYING TO ACHIEVE?
PROPERTY.
THE AVERAGE STAY OF AN
WHAT ARE WE TRYING TO ACHIEVE?
APARTMENT RESIDENT NATIONWIDE
THE AVERAGE STAY OF AN
IS TWO YEARS.
APARTMENT RESIDENT NATIONWIDE
WE'RE HOPING TO CREATE AN
IS TWO YEARS.
ENVIRONMENT WHERE PEOPLE WANT
WE'RE HOPING TO CREATE AN
TO A DAY FOUR YEARS, SIX YEARS
ENVIRONMENT WHERE PEOPLE WANT
AND WE'RE DOING THAT BY
TO A DAY FOUR YEARS, SIX YEARS
CREATING A LIVING ENVIRONMENT
AND WE'RE DOING THAT BY
WHERE HOPEFULLY THE CAR IS NOT
CREATING A LIVING ENVIRONMENT
NECESSARY BECAUSE OF ACCESS TO
WHERE HOPEFULLY THE CAR IS NOT
SHOPPING IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT
NECESSARY BECAUSE OF ACCESS TO
AND ACCESS TO BUS ROUTES AND
SHOPPING IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT
NATURAL PARK SPACES THAT ARE
AND ACCESS TO BUS ROUTES AND
NEARBY.
NATURAL PARK SPACES THAT ARE
WE ALSO WANT TO CREATE A
NEARBY.
PLEASING ESTHETIC ENVIRONMENT
WE ALSO WANT TO CREATE A
APARTMENT FEATURES SUCH AS LOW
PLEASING ESTHETIC ENVIRONMENT
ENERGY CONSUMPTION, HIGH INDOOR
APARTMENT FEATURES SUCH AS LOW
AIR QUALITY AND LOW SOUND
ENERGY CONSUMPTION, HIGH INDOOR
TRANSMISSION WE THINK WILL ALSO
AIR QUALITY AND LOW SOUND
ENCOURAGE LONGER STAYS.
TRANSMISSION WE THINK WILL ALSO
MOST PROJECTS THAT ARE MID RISE
ENCOURAGE LONGER STAYS.
ARE CLOSED OFF.
MOST PROJECTS THAT ARE MID RISE
THEY HAVE A DONUT OR A SORT
ARE CLOSED OFF.
OF A SHOE BOX SHAPE.
THEY HAVE A DONUT OR A SORT
WE HAVE DELIBERATELY OPENED THE
OF A SHOE BOX SHAPE.
CRESCENT TO THE WEST AND
WE HAVE DELIBERATELY OPENED THE
BROUGHT SUNLIGHT INTO WHAT IS
CRESCENT TO THE WEST AND
GOING TO BE A THIRTY THOUSAND
BROUGHT SUNLIGHT INTO WHAT IS
SQUARE FOOT AMENITY DECK WHICH
GOING TO BE A THIRTY THOUSAND
WILL BE I THINK A GREAT FEATURE
SQUARE FOOT AMENITY DECK WHICH
AND ENCOURAGE LONG TERM
WILL BE I THINK A GREAT FEATURE
RESIDENCY.
AND ENCOURAGE LONG TERM
>> SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES
RESIDENCY.
ARE SOMEWHAT TYPICAL FOR LARGE
>> SOME OF THE OTHER FEATURES
PROJECTS LIKE THIS MODERN GYM
ARE SOMEWHAT TYPICAL FOR LARGE
ESPECIALLY WORKOUT AREAS
PROJECTS LIKE THIS MODERN GYM
BUSINESS CENTER WITH MEETING
ESPECIALLY WORKOUT AREAS
SPACE KITCHEN AND OTHER
BUSINESS CENTER WITH MEETING
AMENITIES GEARED FOR
SPACE KITCHEN AND OTHER
COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE TRAFFIC
AMENITIES GEARED FOR
IS ALWAYS A CONCERN SO WE HAVE
COMFORT AND CONVENIENCE TRAFFIC
AGREED TO PUT THE NECESSARY
IS ALWAYS A CONCERN SO WE HAVE
FLASHING CROSSWALKS INTO
AGREED TO PUT THE NECESSARY
INCREASED PEDESTRIAN VEHICULAR
FLASHING CROSSWALKS INTO
SAFETY AND WE HAVE EVEN
INCREASED PEDESTRIAN VEHICULAR
PROPOSED PAYING FOR A NEW
SAFETY AND WE HAVE EVEN
TRAFFIC LIGHT AND OUR RESEALING
PROPOSED PAYING FOR A NEW
ROAD IN OAKBROOK IF THE CITY
TRAFFIC LIGHT AND OUR RESEALING
TEAMS THAT WARRANTED THE
ROAD IN OAKBROOK IF THE CITY
PROJECT HAS TWO ENTRANCES FOR
TEAMS THAT WARRANTED THE
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC ONE PUBLIC
PROJECT HAS TWO ENTRANCES FOR
OFF OF AND OUR ROSSLYN ROAD
VEHICULAR TRAFFIC ONE PUBLIC
WHICH IS SHARED WITH THE
OFF OF AND OUR ROSSLYN ROAD
ADJACENT SHOPPING CENTER AND
WHICH IS SHARED WITH THE
ANOTHER ONE OFF OF OAK PARK
ADJACENT SHOPPING CENTER AND
WHICH IS ACTUALLY NOT A NEW CAR
ANOTHER ONE OFF OF OAK PARK
BUT IT'S PART OF THE PLANT.
WHICH IS ACTUALLY NOT A NEW CAR
BUT IT IS MOVING AND THAT WILL
BUT IT'S PART OF THE PLANT.
BE FOR RESIDENTS ONLY BECAUSE
BUT IT IS MOVING AND THAT WILL
BLEEDS INTO AN UNDERGROUND
BE FOR RESIDENTS ONLY BECAUSE
PARKING STRUCTURE.
BLEEDS INTO AN UNDERGROUND
THE DEVELOPMENT PROMOTES A
PARKING STRUCTURE.
CONNECTION BETWEEN LIVING AND
THE DEVELOPMENT PROMOTES A
SHOPPING IN ADDITION TO BEING
CONNECTION BETWEEN LIVING AND
ON A TRANSIT CORRIDOR, THIS
SHOPPING IN ADDITION TO BEING
DEVELOPMENT SITS DIRECTLY NEXT
ON A TRANSIT CORRIDOR, THIS
TO WHOLE FOODS AND CRANBERG
DEVELOPMENT SITS DIRECTLY NEXT
VILLAGE SHOPPING CENTER
TO WHOLE FOODS AND CRANBERG
PROVIDING RESIDENTS WITH EASY
VILLAGE SHOPPING CENTER
ACCESS TO GROCERIES, RETAIL
PROVIDING RESIDENTS WITH EASY
SERVICES, DINING AND OTHER
ACCESS TO GROCERIES, RETAIL
THINGS ALL WITHOUT REQUIRING A
SERVICES, DINING AND OTHER
CAR.
THINGS ALL WITHOUT REQUIRING A
>> WE'VE COMMITTED TO THE
CAR.
ENERGY STAR MULTIFAMILY NEW
>> WE'VE COMMITTED TO THE
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM WHICH WILL
ENERGY STAR MULTIFAMILY NEW
BE USED TO CONSTRUCT AN ENERGY
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM WHICH WILL
EFFICIENT BUILDING.
BE USED TO CONSTRUCT AN ENERGY
THE STANDARD NOT ONLY PROVIDES
EFFICIENT BUILDING.
DESIGN GUIDANCE BUT ALSO
THE STANDARD NOT ONLY PROVIDES
REQUIRES THIRD PARTY TESTING
DESIGN GUIDANCE BUT ALSO
AND VERIFICATION TO ENSURE THE
REQUIRES THIRD PARTY TESTING
PROJECT WILL PERFORM
AND VERIFICATION TO ENSURE THE
EFFICIENTLY AND DELIVER
PROJECT WILL PERFORM
COMFORT TO THE RESIDENTS AS
EFFICIENTLY AND DELIVER
PLANNED.
COMFORT TO THE RESIDENTS AS
>> IN MARCH WE RECEIVED A DTI
PLANNED.
WILLDAN REPORT WHICH MODEL
>> IN MARCH WE RECEIVED A DTI
VARIOUS CONSTRUCTION CHOICES
WILLDAN REPORT WHICH MODEL
AND THEIR IMPACT ON ENERGY
VARIOUS CONSTRUCTION CHOICES
USAGE.
AND THEIR IMPACT ON ENERGY
THIS WAS ONLY A STARTING POINT
USAGE.
FOR US TO UNDERSTAND WHICH
THIS WAS ONLY A STARTING POINT
CHOICES WILL RESULT IN THE
FOR US TO UNDERSTAND WHICH
BIGGEST ENERGY SAVINGS PER
CHOICES WILL RESULT IN THE
INVESTED.
BIGGEST ENERGY SAVINGS PER
BUT AS A NEXT STEP WE HAVE
INVESTED.
ASKED OUR SUSTAINABLE
BUT AS A NEXT STEP WE HAVE
CONSULTANT CATALYST PARTNERS TO
ASKED OUR SUSTAINABLE
CREATE A MORE DETAILED REPORT
CONSULTANT CATALYST PARTNERS TO
OUTLINING THE COST TO THE
CREATE A MORE DETAILED REPORT
RESIDENTS OF OPERATION AS WELL
OUTLINING THE COST TO THE
AS HELPING US CHOOSE AMONG THE
RESIDENTS OF OPERATION AS WELL
VARIOUS OPTIONS TO MAXIMIZE
AS HELPING US CHOOSE AMONG THE
EFFICIENCY.
VARIOUS OPTIONS TO MAXIMIZE
WE'RE TRYING TO CREATE AN
EFFICIENCY.
ENVIRONMENT WE'RE WALKING,
WE'RE TRYING TO CREATE AN
BIKING AND USING PUBLIC
ENVIRONMENT WE'RE WALKING,
TRANSPORTATION ARE THE DEFAULT
BIKING AND USING PUBLIC
MODES OF TRANSPORTATION.
TRANSPORTATION ARE THE DEFAULT
THE CITY NEEDS MORE HOUSING.
MODES OF TRANSPORTATION.
WE BELIEVE THE CRESCENT IS A
THE CITY NEEDS MORE HOUSING.
THOUGHTFUL, RESPONSIBLE WAY TO
WE BELIEVE THE CRESCENT IS A
MEET THAT HELP MEET THAT NEED
THOUGHTFUL, RESPONSIBLE WAY TO
AND I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE RAY
MEET THAT HELP MEET THAT NEED
FROM PHILIPS FROM KREGER KLATT
AND I'M GOING TO INTRODUCE RAY
WHO WILL DISCUSS AND SHOW SOME
FROM PHILIPS FROM KREGER KLATT
SLIDES OF THE PROJECT.
WHO WILL DISCUSS AND SHOW SOME
PULL IT UP.
SLIDES OF THE PROJECT.
OH, PERFECT.
PULL IT UP.
GOOD EVENING.
OH, PERFECT.
RAY PHILLIPS, THE CREATIVE
GOOD EVENING.
CLOUD ARCHITECTS.
RAY PHILLIPS, THE CREATIVE
FIRST OFF, I'D LIKE TO THANK
CLOUD ARCHITECTS.
YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME TONIGHT
FIRST OFF, I'D LIKE TO THANK
AND ANDY FOR TOUCHING ON SOME
YOU ALL FOR YOUR TIME TONIGHT
OF THE MAJOR POINTS OF THE
AND ANDY FOR TOUCHING ON SOME
PROJECT WE HAVE PUT TOGETHER A
OF THE MAJOR POINTS OF THE
BRIEF POWERPOINT PRESENTATION
PROJECT WE HAVE PUT TOGETHER A
KIND OF SUPPLEMENTAL
BRIEF POWERPOINT PRESENTATION
INFORMATION TO ACCOMPANY THE
KIND OF SUPPLEMENTAL
LATEST SET OF DRAWINGS I
INFORMATION TO ACCOMPANY THE
BELIEVE WERE SUBMITTED IN MARCH
LATEST SET OF DRAWINGS I
OF THIS YEAR.
BELIEVE WERE SUBMITTED IN MARCH
LET ME SEE HERE YOU GO.
OF THIS YEAR.
>> PROJECT LOCATION.
LET ME SEE HERE YOU GO.
IT'S ON ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD,
>> PROJECT LOCATION.
WESTBROOKE AND JUST BEHIND THE
IT'S ON ANN ARBOR SALEEN ROAD,
SHOPPING CENTER PROJECT
WESTBROOKE AND JUST BEHIND THE
SYNOPSIZE CURRENTLY ZONED
SHOPPING CENTER PROJECT
OFFICE WE'RE LOOKING TO
SYNOPSIZE CURRENTLY ZONED
REDESIGN THE PROPERTY TO R FOR
OFFICE WE'RE LOOKING TO
E MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING TO
REDESIGN THE PROPERTY TO R FOR
CONSTRUCT A FIVE STOREY
E MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLING TO
MULTIFAMILY BUILDING ONE FLOOR
CONSTRUCT A FIVE STOREY
OF UNDERGROUND PARKING TWO
MULTIFAMILY BUILDING ONE FLOOR
HUNDRED SIXTY TWO RESIDENTIAL
OF UNDERGROUND PARKING TWO
UNITS CONSISTING OF MOSTLY ONE
HUNDRED SIXTY TWO RESIDENTIAL
BEDROOM AND TWO BEDROOM UNITS
UNITS CONSISTING OF MOSTLY ONE
WITH SOME STUDIOS AND THREE
BEDROOM AND TWO BEDROOM UNITS
BEDS.
WITH SOME STUDIOS AND THREE
SO WE THINK WE HAVE A GOOD MIX
BEDS.
OF UNITS IN THIS PROJECT.
SO WE THINK WE HAVE A GOOD MIX
WE CURRENTLY HAVE THREE
OF UNITS IN THIS PROJECT.
THOUSAND SEVEN SQUARE FEET
WE CURRENTLY HAVE THREE
OF INTERIOR AMENITY SPACE.
THOUSAND SEVEN SQUARE FEET
WE ARE LOOKING TO POTENTIALLY
OF INTERIOR AMENITY SPACE.
INCREASE THAT BUT RIGHT NOW
WE ARE LOOKING TO POTENTIALLY
THAT IS THE PLAN AND THIRTY
INCREASE THAT BUT RIGHT NOW
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF OUTDOOR
THAT IS THE PLAN AND THIRTY
AMENITY SPACE.
THOUSAND SQUARE FEET OF OUTDOOR
IT'S LOCATED ON GRADE TWO
AMENITY SPACE.
HUNDRED AND NINETY SEVEN TOTAL
IT'S LOCATED ON GRADE TWO
PARKING SPACES TWO HUNDRED AND
HUNDRED AND NINETY SEVEN TOTAL
SIXTY EIGHT OF WHICH ARE BELOW
PARKING SPACES TWO HUNDRED AND
THE FIRST FLOOR SO SECURED AND
SIXTY EIGHT OF WHICH ARE BELOW
TWENTY NINE SURFACE PARKING
THE FIRST FLOOR SO SECURED AND
SPACES ARE MOSTLY FOR SHORT
TWENTY NINE SURFACE PARKING
TERM PARKING GAS PARKING WE
SPACES ARE MOSTLY FOR SHORT
HAVE ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FOUR
TERM PARKING GAS PARKING WE
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES EIGHTY
HAVE ONE HUNDRED SIXTY FOUR
TWO CLASS SEVENTY TWO CLASS B
BICYCLE PARKING SPACES EIGHTY
AND TEN CLASS C SO THIS IS THE
TWO CLASS SEVENTY TWO CLASS B
THIS IS A STEP FROM THE CIVIL
AND TEN CLASS C SO THIS IS THE
ENGINEERING PLANS JUST THE SITE
THIS IS A STEP FROM THE CIVIL
PLAN COLOR CODED IT SO YOU
ENGINEERING PLANS JUST THE SITE
COULD SEE EASILY THE BUILDING
PLAN COLOR CODED IT SO YOU
IS SHOWN IN ORANGE THE THIRTY
COULD SEE EASILY THE BUILDING
THOUSAND ROUGHLY SQUARE FEET
IS SHOWN IN ORANGE THE THIRTY
OF OUTDOOR SPACES IN GREEN AND
THOUSAND ROUGHLY SQUARE FEET
ON THE LEFT SIDE WHICH I REFER
OF OUTDOOR SPACES IN GREEN AND
EVERYTHING TO PLAN NORTH SOUTH
ON THE LEFT SIDE WHICH I REFER
EAST AND WEST NORTH IS BOTTOM
EVERYTHING TO PLAN NORTH SOUTH
LEFT CURRENTLY SO THERE IS
EAST AND WEST NORTH IS BOTTOM
CURRENTLY AT ATTENTION AND IN
LEFT CURRENTLY SO THERE IS
THE PLAN WEST.
CURRENTLY AT ATTENTION AND IN
>> SO THIS IS THE LOWER LEVEL.
THE PLAN WEST.
THIS SHOWS JUST ALL OF THE
>> SO THIS IS THE LOWER LEVEL.
PARKING THAT WE PUT DOWN BELOW
THIS SHOWS JUST ALL OF THE
HERE.
PARKING THAT WE PUT DOWN BELOW
I WANT TO START OFF BY SAYING
HERE.
THIS ORIGINALLY WAS STILL A
I WANT TO START OFF BY SAYING
FIVE STORY BUILDING BUT WE HAD
THIS ORIGINALLY WAS STILL A
PARKING LOCATED ON THE FIRST
FIVE STORY BUILDING BUT WE HAD
FLOOR.
PARKING LOCATED ON THE FIRST
WE HAD TO FIND CREATIVE WAYS TO
FLOOR.
HIDE IT BUT WE ARE NOW
WE HAD TO FIND CREATIVE WAYS TO
PROPOSING ALL OF THE PARKING TO
HIDE IT BUT WE ARE NOW
GO UNDERGROUND KEEP IT HIDDEN
PROPOSING ALL OF THE PARKING TO
FROM VIEW BRINGS THE RESIDENTS
GO UNDERGROUND KEEP IT HIDDEN
DOWN TO THE FIRST FLOOR,
FROM VIEW BRINGS THE RESIDENTS
ACTIVATE THE STREET FRONT ON
DOWN TO THE FIRST FLOOR,
OAKBROOK.
ACTIVATE THE STREET FRONT ON
SO WE THOUGHT THAT THAT WAS A
OAKBROOK.
VERY GOOD MOVE TO MAKE ON THIS
SO WE THOUGHT THAT THAT WAS A
PROJECT SHOWS YOU CAN YOU CAN
VERY GOOD MOVE TO MAKE ON THIS
SEE THE BICYCLE PARKING SPACES
PROJECT SHOWS YOU CAN YOU CAN
ONE LOCATION LOCATED UNDER THE
SEE THE BICYCLE PARKING SPACES
RAMP SHOWN IN ORANGE AND THEN
ONE LOCATION LOCATED UNDER THE
WE HAVE TWO OTHER BICYCLE
RAMP SHOWN IN ORANGE AND THEN
PARKING SPACES LOCATED IN THE
WE HAVE TWO OTHER BICYCLE
SOUTHWEST AND SOUTHEAST
.
THIS SHOW THE FIRST FLOOR PLAN
ALL THE WAY AT THE NORTH YOU
CAN SEE WHERE THE VEHICLE
ENTRANCE IS AND AS WAS
MENTIONED, THAT IS JUST TO
ACCESS THE LOWER LEVEL PARKING
AND PLANT SOUTH.
THAT IS WHERE THE CURRENT CURB
CUT IS.
I BELIEVE IT'S BEING SLIGHTLY
MODIFIED AND LOCATION STANDING
IN THE EXACT SAME BECAUSE
THERE'S SOME GRADING ALONG AND
OBVIOUSLY AND ROAD THAT HAD TO
BE DEALT WITH.
WE DO HAVE THREE STAIRCASES,
THREE ELEVATORS.
WE THINK THIS WORKS WITH THE
BUILDING LAYOUT ITSELF ALSO
PROVIDES SOME EASY ACCESS TO
THE UPPER FLOORS DON'T HAVE TO
TRAVEL AS FAR TO GET TO YOUR
UNIT.
THE THIS IS JUST A TYPICAL
FLOOR SIMPLE CORRIDOR RUNNING
DOWN THE ENTIRE BUILDING WITH
UNITS ON EITHER SIDE.
WE'RE USING STANDARD APARTMENT
SIZES RANGING FROM ROUGHLY FIVE
HUNDRED AND FIFTY FOUR STUDIOS
SEVEN HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR
ONE BEDS I BELIEVE A THOUSAND
SQUARE FEET FOR TWO BEDS AND
ROUGHLY TWELVE HUNDRED SQUARE
FEET FOR THE THREE BED UNITS
THAT WE HAVE AND HERE WE JUST
HAVE SOME SIMPLE ASYMMETRIC
PLANS KIND OF SHOWS THE
BUILDING OVERLAID ON TOP
OF GOOGLE EARTH IMAGE SO YOU
COULD SEE THE SIZE AND HOW IT
FITS INTO THE SURROUNDING
SURROUNDING AREAS.
SO WE GO AROUND ALL FOUR SIDES
.
THE BUILDING THAT FROM THIS IS
LOOKING EAST IS LOOKING TO THE
NORTH.
YOU CAN KIND OF SEE THE
ACTIVATED KENNEDY SPACE WHICH
I'LL SHOW ON A COUPLE FUTURE
SLIDES AND HERE IT JUST HAVE
SOME RENDERINGS.
WE WANT TO PULL SOME SO YOU CAN
SEE WHAT THIS IS ACTUALLY GOING
TO LOOK LIKE.
WE DON'T THINK THAT TO THE
ELEVATIONS DO A LOT OF JUSTICE
SO WE WANTED PROVIDE SOME
RENDERINGS.
WE'RE USING HIGH QUALITY
MATERIALS DURABLE.
THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S ALWAYS THE
PLAN BRICKS, STONES, CEMENT,
CEMENT IS DECIDING WHETHER IT'S
A VERTICAL BORDIN BATTON OR
PANELS.
THIS IS THE ENTRY IF YOU WERE
TO PULL INTO ANY OF THE SURFACE
PARKING SPACES.
SO THIS IS KIND OF WHAT WOULD
BE WELCOME INTO THIS PROJECT
AND THEN WE JUST HAVE THREE
OTHER RENDERINGS THAT GO AROUND
THE BUILDING.
SO THIS THIS ONE I THINK IS
VERY IMPORTANT.
THIS SHOWS THAT MIDDLE
ACTIVATED DECK AREA.
SO THIS IS THE OUTDOOR SPACE.
IT DOES INCLUDE A POOL AND WE
REALLY WANT TO ACTIVATE THIS
AND AGAIN CREATE THIS SPACE
WHERE PEOPLE CAN GO AND PROMOTE
PEOPLE STAYING HERE AS LONG
TERM RESIDENTS.
THERE'S JUST ONE OTHER VIEW
THAT'S FROM THE OTHER SIDE
AGAIN KIND OF SHOWING THE POOL
WE'RE GOING TO BREAK OUT THESE
AREAS AND THE DIFFERENT USES IT
COULD BE POOL DOG RUN AREA AND
THINGS LIKE THAT FOR
RECREATIONAL ACTIVITIES.
THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU.
AND WE LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR
COMMENTS RECOMMENDATION FOR
APPROVAL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE WILL TURN TO THE STAFF
PRESENTATION.
THANK SO STAFF'S RECOMMENDATION
IS FOR APPROVAL OF THE SITE
PLANNING AND THE RESULTING
REQUEST BUT JUMPING INTO SOME
OF THE DEVELOPMENT DETAILS THE
AREA THE COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE
YOU MENTIONED ABOUT THE ZIBA
VARIANTS THAT WERE GRANTED A
FEW WEEKS AGO.
YEAH.
SO THE PROJECT RECEIVED AN 18
FOOT VARIANCE FOR THE SITE SET
BACK AT THE JULY TWENTY THIRD
ZIBA MEETING.
BUT THE APPLICANT ALSO PROPOSED
AND I'M SURE THE APPLICANT
WOULD BE WILLING TO DISCUSS THE
OTHER DETAILS REGARDING THIS
PROPOSAL.
AN 18 FOOT NO BILL THE EASEMENT
THAT EXTENDS INTO FROM THE
SIDEWALK LINE INTO THE ADJACENT
PARCEL.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT THE
ADJACENT PARCEL IS UNDER THE
SAME OWNERSHIP GROUP.
SO SECURING SAID EASEMENT
SHOULD NOT BE AN ISSUE FOR FOR
THE PROJECT AS FAR AS OTHER
DETAILS OF THE PROJECT.
SO IT'S BOTH A REZONING AND THE
SITE PLAN WHICH WILL BE GOING
TO COUNCIL FOR APPROVAL.
THE SITE IS CURRENTLY ZONED
OFFICE AND IT'S AND THE REQUEST
IS TO ASK FOR E ZONING THE
PROJECT COMPLEMENTS NEARBY IN
NEARBY USES IMPROVES PEDESTRIAN
CONNECTIONS ON ANN ARBOR SALEEN
ROAD AND A QUICK DRIVE ANALYZES
CITY POLICY GOALS BY
INTRODUCING OVER TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY NEW RESIDENTIAL
SPACES NEAR RETAIL SPACE AND
MAJOR THOROUGHFARES WITH NEARBY
EXISTING TRANSIT LINES THAT NC
IT'S MUCH HIGHER THAN ADJACENT
RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION AND
THE PROPOSED RESIDENTIAL
BUILDING IS NOT CONSISTENT WITH
THE RECOMMENDED OFFICE USE
ORIGINAL AND CURRENT ZONING
OF THE SITE.
HOWEVER, CITY STAFF BELIEVES
THAT THIS IS AN APPROPRIATE
LOCATION FOR HIGHER DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE THE
EXISTING INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE
PROXIMITY TO COMMERCIAL AREAS
AND PARKS AND JUST DIGGING INTO
THESE DETAILS A LITTLE BIT
LONGER ARE A LITTLE BIT DEEPER
THAN THE SITE HAS BEEN VACANT
SINCE AT LEAST NINETEEN FORTY
SEVEN.
THE DETENTION CENTER WAS
INSTALLED IN NINETEEN EIGHTY
SEVEN SO INITIAL DEVELOPMENT
ACTIVITY AT LEAST STARTED IN
NINETEEN EIGHTY SEVEN IN THE
AREA WITH THE CONSTRUCTION
OF THE THE THE DETENTION BASIN
WHICH WILL CONTINUE AND CITY
STAFF IN STORMWATER HAS
ANALYZED THE CAPACITY OF THAT
BASE AND LOOKED AT THE NUMBERS
CALCULATIONS AS PROPOSED BY THE
PROJECT BUT SO SINCE NINETEEN
EIGHTY SEVEN THE BASELINE HAS
BEEN THERE BUT THE PARCEL HAS
BEEN ON OUR HAS REMAINED
UNDEVELOPED SO STAFF IS
SUPPORTIVE OF THE IDEA THAT
THIS COULD BE DEVELOPED INTO
HOUSING AS IT HAS NOT INDUCED
OFFICE INTEREST FOR DEVELOPMENT
IN THIRTY EIGHT YEARS QUICK
MENTAL MATH A COUPLE OF NOTES
FROM THE SITE PLANNING ANALYSIS
OF STAFF COMMENTS FROM SITE
PLAN ANALYSIS.
THE PETITIONER HAS AGREED TO A
CROSSWALK ACROSS OUR DRIVE TO
CONNECT INTO CRANEBROOK PARK.
SO JUST ACROSS OAK BROOK THERE
IS CRANEBROOK PARK AND THERE'S
NO EXISTING CROSSWALK SO THEY
WILL BE WORKING IN GREATER
DETAIL THROUGH YOU KNOW,
ASSUMING IF A PLAN GETS THAT
GETS APPROVED AND THE REZONING
GETS APPROVED, THEY'LL BE
WORKING MORE DETAIL TO DEFINE
THAT LOCATION AND THE TECHNICAL
SPECIFICATIONS NECESSARY FOR
THAT CROSSWALK.
BUT THE CROSS WILL BE PROVIDED
THERE.
SIMILARLY STAFF WILL A
TRANSPORTATION STAFF HAS AGREED
TO WORK WITH THE PETITIONER TO
DETERMINE THE FINAL LOCATION
OF A PROPOSED CROSSWALK ON ANN
ARBOR.
SILENE ROAD DURING THE CIVIL
PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
AGAIN, SHOULD THIS SITE PLAN
AND REZONING APPROVED THE NEED
FOR CROSSWALK HAS BEEN
IDENTIFIED IN THAT STRETCH,
ESPECIALLY WITH MORE
RESIDENTIAL UNITS COMING INTO
THIS AREA.
BUT THE ACTUAL BEST LOCATION
GIVEN THE MULTITUDE OF FACTORS
ARE TRANSPORTATION,
TRANSPORTATION, ENGINEERING
UNIT TAKES A LOOK AT HAS HAS
YET TO BE DETERMINED BUT THAT
WILL BE GOING IN THE I'M HAPPY
TO ANSWER ANY OTHER QUESTIONS.
I THINK THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
GAVE A SUMMARY OF THE PROJECT
THE PROJECT DOES MEET
REQUIREMENTS FOR CLASS AND
CLASS B BICYCLE BICYCLE PIECES
.
IT ALSO MEETS OUR STANDARDS AND
YES, THAT'S YEAH I'LL I'LL STOP
AND OPEN UP FOR QUESTIONS FOR
MYSELF AND THE DEVELOPMENT
TEAM.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
WE'LL MOVE ON TO THE PUBLIC
HEARING FOR THIS AGENDA ITEM.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THE PROPOSED
TWENTY FIVE TWENTY FIVE ANN
ARBOR SALEEN ROAD REZONING AND
SITE PLAN APPLICATION WILL
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PESTANA AN APP
ON THE PHONE OR USE THE RACIN
FEATURE AND ZOOM FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND ENTER MEETING AT NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO SIX CITY STAFF WILL
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
FOUR DIGITS OF THEIR PHONE
NUMBER OR BY NAME FOR SOME
USERS YOU'LL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT IT'S YOUR TURN TO
SPEAK PLEASE MOVE TO A QUIET
AREA AND ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS PLEASE
STATE YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT
THE BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS
.
>> ANYONE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME?
MARK SCARBRO TWENTY SEVENTEEN
VERSTRAETE I'M REALLY EXCITED
ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
IT'S AMAZING TO ME THAT IT'S
SAT VACANT FOR SO LONG.
I AM A REGULAR BAKER TO RPI.
IT'S A GREAT STORE AND I ALWAYS
END UP GETTING FOOD WHOLE FOODS
AS WELL SO I'M JEALOUS OF THE
PEOPLE WHO GET TO LIVE HERE AND
BE SO CLOSE TO THE SHOPPING
AREA.
I ALSO WANT TO THANK THE
PETITIONER FOR THE INCREDIBLE
DETAILED ARCHITECTURAL DRAWINGS
AND RENDERINGS.
I MEAN IT'S HUNDREDS OF PAGES
OF SITE PLANS AND WHEN I THINK
ABOUT THIS SITE SITTING EMPTY
FOR SO LONG IT MAKES SENSE
BECAUSE DOING DEVELOPMENT IN
THE CITY IN PARTICULAR IS SO
COMPLICATED.
I MEAN EVERY SINGLE DETAIL HAS
BEEN MAPPED OUT TO LEVEL OF HOW
TO PLANT A TREE.
THERE'S A CROSS SECTION OF HOW
TO PLANT A TREE IN THE SITE
PLANT.
SO IT'S INCREDIBLY DETAILED.
I'M SURE IT'S ALSO INCREDIBLY
EXPENSIVE TO GENERATE ALL THESE
PLANS WITH THE HOPE THAT THE
CITY APPROVES IT.
BUT I'M EXCITED TO SEE THIS
PLAN SOME VERY MINOR CONCERNS
THINKING ABOUT CROSSWALKS AND
LOOKING AT THE ARCHITECTURAL
RENDERINGS THAT ARE I'M
ASSUMING PERFECTLY ACCURATE
BECAUSE THEY'RE SO DETAILED.
I DON'T SEE A CROSSWALK THROUGH
THE CURB LEADING TO THE SURFACE
PARKING LOT AND I HOPE THAT IS
ADDED.
AND THEN I ALSO HOPE THAT SOME
OF THE KIND OF SLIP LANE TURN
RADII GOING FROM THE SURFACE
PARKING LOT TO AN ARBORIST LANE
ROAD OR TIGHTENED UP IT LOOKS
QUITE WIDE AND AS SOMEONE WHO
HAS BEEN BIKING AND NEARLY
HOOKED OR LEFT HER HOOKED BY
PEOPLE COMING OUT OF A SERVICE
PARKING LOT, I HOPE WE CAN KEEP
THAT SAFETY ASPECT IN MIND.
ONE OTHER CONCERN AND MAYBE
THIS IS ALL IN THE CITY RIGHT
AWAY SO IT'S ACTUALLY UP TO THE
CITY.
BUT I WOULD LOVE TO SEE MORE
TREES ALONG THE SIDEWALKS
AROUND THE PROPERTY.
TREES ARE GREAT FOR KIND
OF NARROWING THE FIELD OF VIEW
ON A ON A BUSY ROAD AND TRYING
TO GET CARS TO SLOW DOWN AND
PROVIDE LOVELY
SHADE.
SO I'D LOVE TO SEE MORE TREES.
THANK YOU.
THANK
YOU.
HI.
MY NAME SHORT AND I'LL GIVE US
ANOTHER TRY HUH.
>> YOU'RE GOOD THIS TIME I I'VE
LIVED ACROSS THE STREET FROM
THIS FOR FORTY YEARS AND
WITNESSED AN OBVIOUSLY LONG
ROAD AND AND IS PRETTY BUT IT
YOU KNOW PEOPLE HAVE TALKED
ABOUT THIS THE PERSONALITY
OF THE CITY AND TO PUT
SOMETHING THIS LARGE ONE AND
TWO STOREY HOUSES AND CONDOS
AND APARTMENTS HERE AND YOU'RE
THROWING FIVE STORIES THAT'S
GOING TO REALLY STICK OUT.
YOU CAN EVEN SEE IT IN THEIR
PICTURES.
IT'S IT'S JUST NOT GOING I
DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO BE
ESTHETICALLY A GOOD THING.
AS YOU KNOW, ANN ARBOR SALEEN
ROAD IS A NO TO APPROACH TO THE
CITY ALONG WITH STATE STREET
AND TO PUT THIS THING HERE TO
ME IT JUST DOESN'T FIT AND I'VE
BEEN I'VE LIVED HERE SINCE
FIFTY EIGHT AND TO SEE THIS IT
JUST YOU KNOW, I COME IN AND I
WAS AROUND ALL THE TIME AND TO
SEE THIS JUST YOU KNOW MAYBE IF
IT WAS TWO OR THREE STORIES
YOU'RE ADDING THREE HUNDRED
PARKING PLACES AND THE TRAFFIC
THERE THERE'S BEEN TWO PEOPLE
KILLED DOWN OAKBROOK ALREADY
AND YOU'RE GOING TO THROW THIS
MANY PEOPLE YOU KNOW I'M SURE
YOU'VE DRIVEN ANN ARBOR SALEEN
ROAD AND TO TO BE PUTTING THEM
CROSS IN ANN OBVIOUSLY THIS IS
THE ONE ENTRANCE IS A BLIND
HILL AND YOU'RE GOING TO BE
ADDING YOU'RE HAVING PEOPLE
CROSS AND PULL OUT OF THE
PEOPLE PULL OUT OF THERE RIGHT
NOW YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO TAKE
A LEFT TURN OUT OF THERE.
THEY DO IT ALL THE TIME EVERY
DAY.
>> SO I JUST I JUST DON'T THINK
IT QUITE FITS BIG.
>> THAT'S IT.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS AND D.A. I LIVE AT
FOUR FOR THREE SUE BARKWAY SO
RIGHT BEHIND THIS AND YOU'RE
GOING TO HAVE TO EXCUSE ME I'VE
JUST RECENTLY MOVED BACK TO ANN
ARBOR.
I LIVED HERE FOR TWENTY SEVEN
YEARS.
I'VE BEEN GONE FOR FIFTEEN OR
JUST A CONDO IN THE CONDOS
PURCHASED THAT IN JANUARY MOVED
IN IN JUNE AND IT FINALLY
SETTLED HERE IN JULY.
BUT WHAT'S SO I LIVED IN OKEMOS
AND WORKED FOR MICHIGAN STATE
FOR A NUMBER OF YEARS AND WAS
HAPPY TO COME BACK TO ANN
ARBOR.
>> BUT WHAT STRUCK ME WELL
AFTER I BOUGHT THE PLACE AND AS
I WAS COMING HERE TO ANN ARBOR
FROM ALCHEMIST'S WAS THAT
TAKING ONE TWENTY SEVEN DOWN TO
NINETY FOUR AND GETTING OFF ON
ANN ARBOR SALEEN WAS THE
TRAFFIC SHOCKING TO ME THE
DIFFERENCE SINCE I HAD LIVED
HERE SO WHAT I HAVE ALSO KNOWN
NOTICED WAS THAT AND I'VE BEEN
TOLD AND IT'S BEEN CONFIRMED TO
ME BY MY NEIGHBORS THAT WHEN
YOU'RE COMING DOWN OVER WORK
AND YOU NEED TO GO DOWN TO ONTO
ANN ARBOR BUSTLING TO GO TO
MYERS, YOU DON'T MAKE A LEFT
HAND TURN THERE BECAUSE YOU
CAN'T THERE'S JUST TOO MUCH
TRAFFIC.
>> SO YOU GOT TO GO AROUND, GET
ON TO EISENHOWER TO MAKE THAT
LEFT IN TURN.
>> SO THAT CURVE THAT YOU COULD
SEE IN THE RENDERINGS HERE,
THIS IS A BLIND CURVE I WOULD
NOT CROSS IN THE CROSSWALK
CENTER.
I WAS THERE.
I WOULD WALK ALL THE WAY DOWN
NORTHBROOK AND I WALK ACROSS SO
I WOULD HAVE AND THERE WAS NO
STOP SIGN THERE FOR PEOPLE
COMING ON BROOKE.
SO YOU ARE TAKING YOUR LIFE IN
YOUR HANDS CROSSING THERE.
>> SO WITH THIS YOU KNOW, I
APPRECIATE THE COMMENTS FROM
THE DEVELOPERS ABOUT HAVING
THIS DEVELOPMENT IN A PLACE
WHERE YOU WOULDN'T NEED A CAR.
WELL, I HATE TO TELL YOU I MEAN
I DID PRETTY WELL FOR MYSELF MY
PRIOR JOB BUT BELIEVE ME, I
CAN'T AFFORD TO BUY MY
GROCERIES AT WHOLE FOODS ALL
THE TIME.
I GOT TO GO TO MYER SO I NEED
MY CAR TO GO TO MYER AND THE
SHOPPING IN THAT AREA.
IT'S JUST NOT ENOUGH TO SUSTAIN
A FAMILY.
SO THE IDEA THAT YOU CAN LIVE
HERE AT THE CRESCENT WITH A
LITTLE NEED FOR A CAR THOUGHT
JUST AS UNREALISTIC AS YOU TRY
TO SURVIVE AND KEEP YOU KNOW,
AND JUST DO YOUR DAY TO DAY.
SO THE OTHER COMMENT THAT I
HAVE AND I TOOK VERY QUICKLY
READ THE THE STAFF'S REPORT ON
THE SITE PLAN ZONING AND ON
PAGE FIVE THE FIRST FULL
PARAGRAPH IT TALKS ABOUT IT
DOES NOT MENTION THE APARTMENTS
ACROSS THE STREET.
WE'VE BEEN CLOSE SO THERE ARE
APARTMENTS IN THAT AREA BUT
IT'S NOT MENTIONED AT ALL IN
THIS REPORT.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
I GREW UP IN MESS.
I NEVER HEAR ANYBODY TALK ABOUT
IT.
SO WHEN YOU SAID THAT I WAS
LIKE BUT TONIGHT YEAH.
>> I HAVE BEEN HERE SINCE EARLY
ANTHROPOSOPHY ANTHROPOCENE I
REALLY LOVE THIS PROJECT.
MY PARTNER LIVES DOWN THAT WAY
.
THE THINGS THAT NEED TO BE
IMPROVED ARE NOT WHAT THIS
PROJECT LIKE IT'S BARNABUS
LINE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE LIKE
THEY'RE NOT GOING TO BE DRIVING
TO DOWNTOWN EVERY DAY.
IT'S GREAT AND OBVIOUSLY I'D
LIKE TO GO OUT TO THE REST
OF THE SHOPPING OUT THERE.
IT'S TERRIBLE.
THAT'S NOT FOR THIS PROJECT
THAT'S CITY PURVIEW BUT NOT
THIS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK HI.
MY NAME IS GARY NEIL'S HIGH
HIGHLIGHTED FIVE TWENTY GALEN'S
CIRCLE WHICH IS DIRECTLY OVER
ACROSS FROM THE FACILITY BEING
PLANNED.
THE TRAFFIC STUDY IS ONE OF THE
BIG ISSUES OPRAH HAS BEEN USED
BECAUSE IT'S RIGHT BEHIND ME I
SEE FIRE TRUCKS, AMBULANCES,
DUMP TRUCKS I MEAN FLYING DOWN
THROUGH THERE AND WHETHER WE
PUT A LIGHT ON BROOKE AND MAN
OBVIOUSLY OR LIGHT AT THE
ENTRANCE TO THE SHOPPING CENTER
,I THINK A LIGHT SHOULD BE
KIND OF FOREMOST IN THINKING
OH, SOMETHING'S GOT TO BE DONE
THERE AND ON GAME DAY AND
OBVIOUSLY THERE'S ONE WAY BLOCK
OFF, OK, SO YOU CAN'T GET OUT
THAT WAY BUT I ASSUME A TRAFFIC
STUDY IS DONE.
THE OTHER THING IS THE CURB
WHERE THEY SHOULD IS NOT WHERE
THE CURB CUT IS.
IT'S MORE TOWARD THE CURVE IN
THE ROAD SO IT'S PROBABLY OVER
ONE HUNDRED FEET FURTHER WEST
BUT THE THE THING I WAS
WONDERING IS DO DO YOU NEED TO
ADD ANOTHER CURB CUT OR ARE I'M
ASSUMING THEY'RE TYING INTO THE
PARKING LOT FOR WHOLE FOODS AT
THE MALL THERE.
WHY CAN'T THEY USE THE EXIT
THAT'S ALREADY A CURB CUTS IT'S
THERE THAT'S RIGHT ACROSS FROM
THE ENTRANCE TO THE
SUBDIVISION.
SO NOW WE HAVE STREETS TOGETHER
AND YOU'RE NOT ADDING ANOTHER
ENTRANCE INTO THE STREET AND
THEN ALSO ON THE PEDESTRIAN
WALKWAY IF YOU PUT IT RIGHT
ACROSS FROM THE ENTRANCE TO THE
PARK, IT WOULD BE CLOSER TO
ARBOR SALEEN ROAD.
NOW IF YOU TRY TO CROSS OAK
BROOK CANNABIS LANE AND
OBVIOUSLY FORTY FIVE MILES AN
HOUR PEOPLE TURNING INTO THERE,
IT'S A VERY DANGEROUS SO IF YOU
PUT THE CROSSWALK THERE I THINK
THAT WOULD SOLVE THAT.
BUT THE OTHER THING IS WE'RE
THE CURB CUT IS NOW IF YOU'RE
COMING OUT THE GARAGE YOU'RE
COMING UP AT AN ANGLE AND THE
HEADLIGHTS WILL GO RIGHT INTO
THE BACK OF HOUSES ON OAK BROOK
ON A LITTLE CIRCLE RIGHT THERE
THAT TO BE GOOD IF THEY'RE
GOING TO DO THAT TO PUT SOME
SHIELDING UP THERE SO THE
HEADLIGHTS DON'T GET INTO THE
BUILDING THE OTHER THING IS THE
LAST THING IS THE STORM WATER.
I KNOW THERE'S A RETENTION POND
HERE AND IT SHOULD TAKE CARE
OF HOLDING SOME OF THAT WE'VE
HAD SOME LOCALIZED FLOODING IN
THE SUBDIVISION SO I'M NOT SURE
IF THE WHOLE INFRASTRUCTURE
DOWNSTREAM FROM THAT IS
SOMETHING THAT AT LEAST SHOULD
BE VERIFIED IT IS CAPABLE
OF HANDLING.
>> THAT'S IT.
THANK THANK YOU
.
>> HELLO.
HELLO.
MY NAME IS GARY WAS CHESKY.
I LIVE AT 540 SIX GALEN CIRCLE
.
>> I FEEL MOTIVATED TO TELL YOU
A LITTLE BIT MORE ABOUT MYSELF
UNFORTUNATELY AND YOU'LL YOU'LL
KNOW WHY IN A MINUTE.
I USED TO RESIDE IN ANN ARBOR
AS A STUDENT OBVIOUSLY IN THE
70S AFTER THAT I JOINED THE
NATIONAL PARK SERVICE, RETIRED
AS A PARK SUPERINTENDENT AFTER
40 YEARS OF SERVICE MOVED TO
ANN ARBOR AND I'VE BEEN IN MY
RESIDENCE ON GALEN CIRCLE FOR
ALL OF FIFTY EIGHT DAYS SO I
APOLOGIZE.
I HAVEN'T PREPARED REMARKS AND
I AM IGNORANT OF LAWS, RULES,
REGULATIONS, COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING ETC. SO PLEASE TAKE
THAT TO HEART.
THAT BEING SAID I HAVE ONE
GENERAL COMMENT AND A COUPLE
OF MINOR COMMENTS THIS PROPOSAL
IS OBVIOUSLY AN ABERRATION
OF THE ZONING ALONG ANN ARBOR
SALEEN ROAD AND THERE IS NO
OTHER FIVE STOREY STRUCTURE
THAT I'M AWARE OF AND ANN
OBVIOUSLY SO OBVIOUSLY THIS IS
SOMETHING VERY, VERY DIFFERENT
AND AND NEEDS TO BE CONSIDERED
IN TERMS OF THE SMALLER
DENSITY, LOWER
HEIGHT, THOSE
KINDS OF CONCERNS.
I HEARD ABOUT YOUR
COMPREHENSIVE PLANNING.
THIS WOULD BE A PERFECT
OPPORTUNITY TO TAKE A LOOK AT
THAT PIECE OF PROPERTY RATHER
THAN TRYING TO SHOEHORN A FIVE
STOREY HIGH DENSITY PLACED THAT
IS THERE.
>> SO I WOULD ENCOURAGE YOU TO
TAKE A LOOK AT THAT IN TERMS
OF YOUR OVERALL COMPREHENSIVE
PLANNING IN TERMS OF A COUPLE
OF GENERAL STATEMENTS AND IT'S
ALREADY BEEN MENTIONED THE ONLY
ENTRANCE TO THE GARAGE FOR TWO
HUNDRED AND SIXTY NINE PARKING
SPACES IS OFF OF OAK BROOK AND
ALL OF THOSE CARS ESPECIALLY AT
NIGHT AGRAMONTE SHINING THEIR
LIGHTS INTO OAK BROOK
CONDOMINIUMS ACROSS THE STREET
.
>> MY SUGGESTION IS THAT THE
DEVELOPER AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TAKE A LOOK AT
MOVING THE ENTRANCE INTO THE
GARAGE OFF OF THEIR MAIN
ENTRANCE WHICH IS OFF OBVIOUSLY
AND OBVIOUSLY IN ROAD AND
LASTLY, SINCE I'M OUT OF TIME I
WOULD SUGGEST THAT PARKING I
ASSUME THAT PARKING IS NOT
REALLY AN ISSUE BECAUSE YOU
HAVE BASICALLY ONE PARKING
SPACE AT ONE POINT TWO PARKING
SPACES FOR EACH OF THE
RESIDENCES THAT DOESN'T SEEM TO
BE ENOUGH TO ME AS AN OBSERVER
I SUGGEST THAT THE WELL, I
ASSUME THAT SINCE THE DEVELOPER
ALSO OWNS WHOLE FOODS AND OR
OTHER THINGS THAT ADDITIONAL
PARKING WILL BE DONE OFF OF THE
PARKING LOT FOR THE WHOLE FOODS
AND THE OTHER STORES ARE THERE.
AND LASTLY, LET'S MAKE SURE WE
STREETSCAPE THE ROADWAYS THAT
SURROUND THE PROPERTY.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU AND WELCOME BACK
TO ANOTHER THERE.
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT WHO WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK
?
>> YOU WERE HIDING BUT I WAS
WONDERING WHERE YOU ARE.
>> I THINK YOU'RE HIDING BEHIND
THE THING.
YEAH, THIS PUBLIC HEARING SMOKE
ME OUT.
THANKS, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT.
KEN GARBER AGAIN.
SO MR. SCARBRO WAS RIGHT.
THERE'S A LOT OF DETAIL IN THE
SITE PLAN BUT THERE ARE ALSO
SOME OMISSIONS OR AT LEAST SOME
QUESTIONS I HAVE TO BE INWITH
TO MR. PERCEPTIVE COMMENT.
THIS PROJECT AT FLORIDA RATIO
OF TWO HUNDRED NINE PERCENT IS
ALMOST THREE TIMES AS LARGE AS
PERMITTED IN THE CURRENT OFFICE
OWNING DISTRICT.
SO IT'S A IT'S A VERY LARGE
ZONING SO IT DOESN'T MEAN WE
SHOULDN'T DO IT BUT THIS SHOULD
BE A MODEL PROJECT IN EVERY WAY
AND THERE'S NO AFFORDABLE
HOUSING HERE.
IT IS HIGH DENSITY.
SO IN TERMS OF CITY GOALS SORT
OF ONE FOR TWO BUT REGARDING
SUSTAINABILITY, WE DIDN'T HEAR
MUCH IN THE PRESENTATION
THEY'RE SEEKING ENERGY STAR
MULTI-FAMILY NEW CONSTRUCTION
CERTIFICATION.
YOU MAY KNOW THAT THE EPA IS IN
THE PROCESS OF DISMANTLING THE
ENTIRE ENERGY STAR PROGRAM.
SO I'M WONDERING WHAT WILL BE
DOING THE CERTIFICATION MAYBE
THERE ARE INDEPENDENT THIRD
PARTIES THAT CAN DO IT.
THAT'S JUST A QUESTION FEE.
THERE WAS A LETTER FROM A.J.
CUP A YEAR AGO IN THE DOCUMENT
REPOSITORY STATING THIS WILL BE
AN ALL ELECTRIC PROJECT.
I HAVEN'T SEEN IT REITERATED.
I'D LIKE TO HEAR THAT CONFIRMED
ON THE SITE AND REFERS TO SPLIT
SYSTEM HEAT PUMPS.
I THINK THEY NEEDS
CLARIFICATION.
>> WHAT DOES THAT MEAN?
MINI SPLITS WHICH IS A DUCKULA
SYSTEM WITH OUTDOOR COMPRESSORS
FEEDING INDIVIDUAL ROOMS, THE
RF HEAT PROBABLY ELECTRIC
RESISTANCE SYSTEM, A HYBRID GAS
ELECTRIC SPLIT SYSTEM WITH GAS
IN THE WINTER AND ELECTRIC AND
SHOULDER SEASONS WE'VE SEEN
SOME OF THAT NOT OPTIMAL HOW
WELL THE COMMON AREAS BE HEATED
ELECTRICALLY.
>> SO YEAH, THE DOCUMENTS REFER
TO ROOFTOPS OVER THREE HUNDRED
NINETY ONE POINT SIX KILOWATT
CAPACITY BUT THERE'S NOTHING IN
THE DRAWINGS I SAW ABOUT THAT
FROM A LETTER FROM AUGUST LAST
HERE QUOTE THE PROJECT TEAM
ATTEMPTS TO DESIGN THE PROJECT
TO BE NET ZERO READY END QUOTE.
DOES THAT MEAN THE SOLAR PANEL
TO ONLY BE INSTALLED AT SOME
UNKNOWN FUTURE DATE AND AT A
TIME OF CONSTRUCTION?
>> IF SO, WHY NOT?
>> WELL, NETZER WAS A GREAT
GOAL.
HOW CAN THIS BUILDING ACHIEVE
THE THREE HUNDRED NINETY ONE
KILOWATT SOLAR CAN ONLY SERVE A
SMALL FRACTION OF THE DEMAND
FROM THE TWO HUNDRED SIXTY TWO
UNITS PLUS COMMON SPACE EV
CHARGERS SOME ON NET ZERO
STILGOE SO THERE'S GOING TO BE
ENERGY MODELING HAVE A
CALCULATOR THE BUILDING ENERGY
USE INTENSITY UI THE IEEE IS
TWENTY SIX POINT NINE TO YOU
PER SQUARE FOOT PER YEAR IS
THAT GOING TO BE MET OR
EXCEEDED.
SO IS IT ALL ELECTRIC AND PLUS
THE OTHER QUESTIONS.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR ANYONE PRESENT
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK.
>> IS THERE ANYONE WHO WOULD
LIKE TO ADDRESS THE COMMISSION
REMOTELY OF WHICH YOU CAN
ADDRESS THE CLINIC?
>> THANK HI ADAM JUSZKIEWICZ
AGAIN LAS VEGAS DRIVE IN THE
FOURTH WARD.
I'VE BEEN WONDERING WHAT'S
GOING TO HAPPEN WITH THIS
DESOLATE PATCH OF GRASS AND
WEEDS SINCE MY PARENTS TOOK ME
SHOPPING FOR CLOTHES AT
MERVYN'S BEFORE WHOLE FOODS
CAME TO ANN ARBOR.
IT'S GREAT THAT WE'RE FINALLY
GOING TO SEE MUCH NEEDED
HOUSING BUILT HERE AND I THINK
THIS PLAN IS COMPLETELY
APPROPRIATE FOR THE AREA.
THE DENSITY IS GREAT AND
EXTREMELY WELL.
I'M GLAD TO SEE THE ADDED
PEDESTRIAN INFRASTRUCTURE IN AN
AREA THAT'S REALLY NOT GREAT
FOR PEDESTRIANS RIGHT NOW I'D
LOVE TO SEE A REFUGE ISLAND IN
ANN ARBOR SALEEN THAT ALSO
HELPS TO PREVENT WHAT TURNS OUT
THAT A LOT SINCE I AGREE WITH
THE PREVIOUS SPEAKER THAT
THAT'S A PROBLEM AND OBVIOUSLY
BADLY NEEDS TRAFFIC CALMING BUT
I GUESS THAT'S OUTSIDE THE
SCOPE OF THIS PROJECT.
PERHAPS A ROUNDABOUT COULD BE
CONSIDERED AT THE OAK BROOK
NORTHBROOK ANN ARBOR SILENE
INTERSECTION RATHER THAN WHITE
IF THE CURRENT STOP SIGN IS
DEEMED INSUFFICIENT.
THANK YOU TO THE DEVELOPER FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
I THINK IT'LL BE A GREAT
ADDITION TO OUR COMMUNITY.
>> PLEASE APPROVE THIS REZONING
AND SITE PLAN TONIGHT.
THANK
DO WE HAVE ANY OTHER
REMOTE CALLERS?
WE HAVE FUN MARY PLEASE MAKE
YOURSELF AND ENTRUST THE
PLANNING FOR UP TO THREE
MINUTES.
>> HELLO CAN YOU HEAR ME?
>> YES.
OK GREAT.
MY NAME IS MARY WARSHAWSKY WIFE
OF GARY WARSHAWSKY.
WE LIVE AT FIVE SIX BEFORE GAME
CIRCLE.
I TRUST THAT YOU ALL HAVE HAD A
CHANCE TO READ MY SUBMITTED
COMMENTS OPPOSITION OR
CONCESSIONS AND COMPROMISE
PLEASE READ THOSE THOSE ARE
DETAILED.
I WILL NOT BE GOING OVER THAT
WHOLE WRITTEN PRESENTATION THAT
I EMAILED YOU.
THIS PROJECT IS A BEAUTIFUL
BUILDING.
IT DOES NOT FIT OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD JUST THE LOOKS
OF IT.
IT IS THE APARTMENT I'M SORRY A
HOTEL STRUCTURE THIS IS A
LUXURY HOTEL.
IT DOES NOT FIT WITHIN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
I AM VERY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
WALKERS IN THE DRIVE.
WE HAVE A LOT OF WALKERS
THROUGH CRANBERG PARK.
THIS AREA ESPECIALLY WITH THE
PARKING BEING UNDERGROUND IS
GOING TO CREATE PROBLEMS.
I UNDERSTAND THAT CROSSWALKS
WILL TAKE AWAY SOME OF THAT
RISK.
THEY WILL DEFINITELY NEED TO
HAVE THE FLASHERS FOR THE
DRIVERS TO BE ALERTED.
THE TRAFFIC CONDITIONS ARE
GOING TO BE HORRIFIC.
>> I DON'T HAVE TO SAY ANY MORE
ABOUT THAT IN ADDITION TO MY
SUBMITTED WRITTEN COMMENTS I
WOULD PROPOSE ANOTHER USE FOR
THIS PARCEL WE THE CITY COULD
REALLY MAKE THIS SPACE
ATTRACTIVE AND INVITING FOR AN
HOUR BIRTHRIGHTS AND OUR
VISITORS WITH ALL THE
DEVELOPMENT HAPPENING AROUND
THIS AREA BRIARWOOD MALL, THE
CORNER OF STATE STREET HOUSING
HOTEL AND SHOPPING HOW
BEAUTIFUL WOULD IT BE IF THE
CITY USED THIS AREA AS A
PAVILION PARK TO SERVE AS IN
THE STATICALLY PLEASING AND
FUNCTIONAL GATEWAY INTO THE
CITY THAT WOULD REFLECT AN
ARBOR'S CHARACTER WITH
CRANBROOK PARK ACROSS THE
STREET?
THIS COULD BE A WELCOME
ADDITION AND OUR WILDLIFE WILL
LOVE US FOR IT.
WE COULD HAVE SIGNAGE THAT SAYS
WELCOME TO ANN ARBOR WHERE
NATURAL BEAUTY AND CITY LIFE
COME TOGETHER.
LET'S STICK WITH WHAT WE'RE
KNOWN FOR OUR NATURAL BEAUTY.
I STRONGLY URGE THIS BOARD TO
SERIOUSLY THINK THIS THROUGH
MORE THOROUGHLY THE
RAMIFICATIONS AND UNINTENDED
IMPACT OF PROJECT OF THIS
MAGNITUDE WILL HAVE ON THE
EXISTING NEIGHBORHOODS.
LET OUR VOICES BE HEARD AND
LET'S TAKE A STEP BACK AND
RETHINK THE BEST FOR ALL
PARTIES INVOLVED.
CAN THE CITIZENS OF ANN ARBOR
HELP SHAPE THE FUTURE OF ANN
ARBOR THAT WOULD BE UP TO YOU
IN VOTING TO REZONE TWENTY FIVE
TWENTY FIVE ANN ARBOR SALEEN
BOTH THANK YOU FOR LISTENING TO
ME AND I APPRECIATE ALL OF YOUR
WORK.
>> THANK YOU
.
>> NO OTHER ANSWER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I WILL I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC
HEARING AND READ THE PROPOSED
MOTIONS AND I PROPOSE TAKING
BOTH OF THEM TOGETHER UNLESS
THERE'S ANY OBJECTIONS.
THE UNIVERSITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE CRESCENT TWENTY FIVE TWENTY
FIVE AN HOUR LANE ROAD REZONING
FROM OUR OFFICE TO OUR E
MULTIPLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL AND
THE ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION RECOMMENDS THAT THE
MAYOR AND CITY COUNCIL APPROVE
THE CRESCENT TWENTY FIVE TWENTY
FIVE AND A ROSELYNE ROAD SITE
PLAN AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
MOVED BY COMMISSIONER ROTHERY
SECONDED COUNCIL MEMBER
DISHWARE IN DISCUSSION WHO
WOULD LIKE TO KICK US OFF?
>> COMMISSIONER LEE, THANK YOU
AND THANK YOU TO THE PETITIONER
FOR BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
>> THIS HAS BEEN VACANT FOR A
VERY LONG TIME SINCE I CAN
REMEMBER AND ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT I WILL ALSO CLARIFY IS I
ACTUALLY WALK THIS AREA EVERY
SINGLE DAY.
I WALK MY DOG FROM THE PARK SO
I LOVE THIS PLACE.
I LIVE ON THE CORNER OF OAK
BROOK AND MAIN STREET.
SO THIS SOMEWHERE THAT IS VERY
NEAR AND DEAR TO MY HEART AND
SO LET'S LOOK AT THE CRITERIA
BY WHICH YOU EVALUATE THE
REZONING BECAUSE THAT'S THE ONE
THAT HAS DISCRETION, RIGHT?
THE OTHER ONE IS A SITE PLAN
FOR PLANNING PERMISSION AND
THEN THE REZONING GOES TO CITY
COUNCIL.
SO LET'S TALK THIS THROUGH THE
EXTENT TO WHICH THE REZONING IS
NECESSARY FROM SEVENTY FIVE
PERCENT TO TWO HUNDRED TEN
PERCENT ISH.
THAT'S WHAT WE TALKED ABOUT.
I DO BELIEVE THAT IS ACTUALLY
THE REZONING IS NECESSARY BASED
ON OFFICE RELATIVE TO
MULTIFAMILY DEMAND.
SO WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
CURRENT STATURE OF OUR OFFICE
RELATIVE TO MULTIFAMILY I THINK
THAT OPPOSE COVID BASIS THIS
MAKES SENSE SO THAT TO ME THAT
CRITERIA SATISFY HOW THE
REZONING WILL AFFECT PUBLIC
WELFARE AND PROPERTY RIGHTS
OF PERSONS LOCATED IN THE
VICINITY.
SO PUBLIC WELFARE THE GENERAL
PROMISE OF ACCESS AND ACCESS
OF FOLKS THAT CAN'T AFFORD TO
LIVE HERE RELATIVE TO FOLKS
THAT ARE HERE I THINK
INCREASING UNITS AND INFILL
DEVELOPMENT ON A SITE THAT HAS
TRADITIONALLY BEEN DIFFICULT
DOES MAKE SENSE.
PROPERTY RIGHTS PERSONS LOCATED
IN THE VICINITY I DO BELIEVE
THERE MAY BE A SLIGHTLY
NEGATIVE IMPACT TO THE SCALE
RELATIVE TO FOLKS THAT
CURRENTLY LIVE IN THE CONDOS
BUT WE HAVE TO BALANCE THAT ALL
POLICY IS ABOUT TRADE OFFS AND
I THINK THAT IT IS IMPORTANT
AND AGAIN I LIVE HERE RIGHT
LIKE THIS IS I WALK THIS PLACE
EVERY SINGLE TIME.
I LOVE THAT SUNSET AS I WALK
THERE BUT I ALSO THINK ABOUT
THE BALANCING OF NEEDS OF THE
GENERAL POPULACE OF HOW MANY
FOLKS SHOULD LIVE IN ANN ARBOR
OR SHOULD HAVE DESERVE A PLACE
TO LIVE.
AND SO I THINK THE ORIENTATION
OF THE SITE FAVORS THE WESTERN
FACE AND NOT THE SOUTHEASTERN
FACE.
SO IT FAVORS A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF THE SHOPPING CENTER.
IT CREATES A MUCH MORE INVITING
KIND OF SCHEMA FROM THE
APPROACH FROM ANN ARBOR SALEEN
RELATIVE TO I THINK THEY USE A
UNIQUE BLEND OF MATERIALITY
THAT DOES CREATE VISUAL
DIVERSITY.
BUT THAT BEING SAID, I WOULD
LOVE TO SEE A FEW MORE TREES
THAT ARE KIND OF ON THAT
SOUTHERN FACE TO CREATE MORE
FAVORABLE WALKING CONDITIONS
THAT CREATE THAT LIMITS THE
NEGATIVE IMPACTS TOWARDS THE
OCRACOKE CONDOS.
IT IS ALWAYS A CHALLENGE WHEN
YOU HAVE TO BALANCE THOSE TWO
THINGS OF DENSITY RELATIVE TO
AND AGAIN I LIVE IN THE THREE
STOREY CONDOS THAT ARE ON MAIN
IN OAK BROOK AND I UNDERSTAND I
MYSELF ALSO HAVE I CAN FEEL
KIND OF THE PULLS OF OH MAN
THAT WOULD ACTUALLY IMPACT IT.
BUT AT THE SAME TIME WE HAVE TO
LOOK AT HOLISTIC WHAT IS IN THE
BEST INTERESTS OF THE CITY AS
WELL AS WHAT ARE THE THINGS
THAT WE HAVE TO DO AS A CITY.
AND SO THAT'S SO I DO BELIEVE
THAT IT POSITIVELY BENEFITS
PUBLIC WELFARE HAS A NEGATIVE
IMPACT ON THE IMMEDIATE KIND
OF RESIDENTS.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I DO WANT
TO SAY BASED ON THE TWENTY
NINETEEN SOME OF TRAFFIC
THERE'S LIKE 19000 TRAFFIC
COUNTS.
LET ME JUST DOUBLE CHECK THIS.
I PERSONALLY DON'T BELIEVE
FIFTEEN THOUSAND SOUTH OF OAK
VALLEY DRIVE FIFTEEN THOUSAND
POUNDS I DON'T KNOW THAT THREE
HUNDRED CARS ISSUE IS GOING TO
MAKE THAT LARGER THAN IMPACTS
IMPACT JUST I WANT TO GIVE THAT
KIND OF CLARIFICATION AGAIN I
WALK THIS STREET EVERYDAY WITH
MY LOVELY DOG SO SO THERE'S I
TOOK A LOOK AT THE SANITARY
SEWER MITIGATION CALCULATIONS
TWO HUNDRED ELEVEN GALLONS PER
MINUTE.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE AN
IMPROVEMENT OVER CURRENT SITE
RETENTION CAPACITY.
I DO AGREE THAT THE PARK HAS
HAD DEFINITELY INTERMITTENT
FLOODING AND KIND LIKE
HEIGHTENED WATER ISSUES.
I'VE NOTICED THAT SEVERAL TIMES
.
BUT THAT BEING SAID, I THINK
ACTUALLY HAVING A DEVELOPMENT
THAT HAS INCREASED RETENTION IS
GOING TO BE ULTIMATELY
BENEFICIAL HOW THE REZONING IS
ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE CITY.
THIS IS A DEVELOPMENT OF AN
INFILL SITE THAT HAS NOT BEEN
THERE RIGHT ADDS DETENTION
CAPACITY INCREASES, PROPERTY
TAX REVENUE I BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE CITY AS
A WHOLE.
HOW IS A PARTICULAR LOCATION
MEETS THE CONVENIENCE SERVICE
REQUIREMENTS OF POTENTIAL USER
AND OCCUPANCY.
I WALK TO THAT THERE'S A NEW
LIKE HAWAIIAN BARBECUE SPOT.
I LOVE THAT PLACE.
I GO TO WHOLE FOODS FROM TIME
TO TIME THEY HAVE THE BEST
CHICKEN JUST A QUICK PLUG AND
GO OVER TO HAWAIIAN BARBECUE
SPOT.
ALL OF THAT SAID YEAH I BELIEVE
THIS PARTICULAR LOCATION DOES
ME CONVENIENCE AND SERVICE
REQUIREMENTS AND POTENTIAL
USERS.
SO SO FAR I THINK I HAVE GONE
THROUGH THE FOUR KIND OF LIKE
REZONING CRITERIA AND I'M SORRY
THAT THIS IS GOING TO BE
SOMEWHAT LENGTHY JUST BECAUSE
AGAIN THIS IS NEAR AND DEAR TO
ME.
SO I SHARE YOUR CONCERNS BUT I
ALSO WANT TO CLARIFY KIND
OF THINKING RELATIVE TO TRADE
OFFS THAT EXIST IN WHAT WE HAVE
TO REALLY KIND OF CONSIDER LIKE
WHAT ARE DEFINED BY THE UNIFIED
DEVELOPMENT CODE BY WHICH WE
LOOK AT A REZONING AND THEN ANY
CHANGING CONDITIONS IN THE
PARTICULAR AREA IN CITY
GENERALLY WHICH MAY HAVE
BEARING ON THE REQUESTS AGAIN
SEVENTY SEVENTY EIGHTY THOUSAND
CARS THAT COME INTO THE CITY ON
A DAILY BASIS TO HAVE AN
INCREASED HOUSING STOCK 270
PLUS UNITS HERE I THINK IS
SOMETHING THAT IS BENEFICIAL TO
THE OVERALL CITY ALREADY
APPROVED STRAIGHT UP I AND I
TOTALLY UNDERSTAND THERE'S 340
UNITS OVER AT BRIARWOOD.
THERE IS ARBER SOUTH.
I'M PERFECTLY WELL I'M SO I'M
SO SORRY THIS IS SO ALL OF THAT
SAID AGAIN MY INTENT IS TO KIND
OF RATIONALIZE AND THINK
THROUGH KIND OF THE BALANCING
OF WHAT THE ZONING MEANS.
AND SO I BELIEVE THAT THE
CHANGING CONDITIONS THAT WE
HAVE WORSENING AFFORDABILITY
ISSUES AND THAT THIS WOULD
POSITIVELY IMPACT THAT IN THE
LONG RUN.
SO OTHER CIRCUMSTANCES AND
FACTORS FURTHER JUSTIFY THAT
REQUEST.
I THINK IT'S THE CONTEXT
OF THIS INFILL DEVELOPMENT.
THIS SITE HAS NOT SEEN ANY
ACTIVITY FOR THE LAST SEVENTY
NINETEEN FORTY SEVEN OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
SIXTY EIGHT YEARS I WOULD UNDER
NO COMES OUT TO SO I LIVE HERE
I WOULD LOVE TO WELL MY MY DOG
LOVES THAT PLACE RIGHT.
HE LIKES THE SNOW I CALL IT MY
DOGS GROWLING SORRY HE LIKES TO
SCROLL AND BASICALLY CHECK OUT
ON ALL THE DIFFERENT SOUNDS AND
ET CETERA.
ALL OF THAT SAID IN LOOKING AT
THE BALANCING OF THE PUBLIC
GOOD IN THIS PARTICULAR
REZONING REQUEST, I BELIEVE IT
SATISFIES THE SIX POINTS THAT
WE HAVE.
WE ARE OBLIGATED TO EVALUATE
THE CRITERIA BY WHICH WE LOOK
AT THE REZONING SO FEW OF THE
THINGS THAT I'D LOVE TO SEE ARE
TREES ON THE SOUTHERN FACE OR
SOMETHING THAT IMPROVES THE
PEDESTRIAN EXPERIENCE ON OAK
BROOK.
OTHER THINGS TO BE KIND
OF CONSTANT JUST BECAUSE I KNOW
THE SITE VERY INTIMATELY WELL
THERE IS A DOWNWARD GRADE THAT
AS YOU'RE COMING DOWN AND
OBVIOUSLY TOWARDS OAK BROOK I
HAVE SEEN THREE ACCIDENTS THERE
DURING THE WINTER TIME.
SO AS YOU TAKE A RIGHT INTO OAK
BROOK OFF OF ANN ARBOR SO
BECAUSE THERE'S A DOWNWARD
THERE THAT IS ACTUALLY A VERY
KIND OF APT AREA ACTUALLY A
TRAFFIC CIRCLE OR SOMETHING
ALONG THOSE LINES SOMETHING TO
HELP SLOW DOWN AND FOR FOR WHAT
IT'S WORTH, THE MORE THAT THE
BUILDING IS CLOSER AND THERE'S
MORE VISUAL KIND OF CUES,
DRIVERS TEND TO SLOW DOWN.
SO HOPEFULLY THAT IS SOMETHING
THAT OCCURS.
SO TAKING A LOOK THROUGH THAT
AND THEN I PERSONALLY THINK
THAT THE THE CROSS WORK WILL BE
HELPFUL.
I UNDERSTAND THERE BUT YEAH,
THAT'S ULTIMATELY TAKING A LOOK
AT THIS EVEN THOUGH I BELIEVE
THAT THERE IS A SLIGHT NEGATIVE
IMPACT TO THE FOLKS THAT ARE IN
OPRAH CONDOS INCLUDING MYSELF.
I BELIEVE THAT THIS IS IN THE
PUBLIC INTEREST OF INFILL
DEVELOPMENT THAT IS RESPONSIBLE
FOR ADVANCING AFFORDABILITY.
SO YEAH, SO HAVING AND TAKING A
LOOK THROUGH THIS I WANT TO
KICK US OFF AND THEN I WILL
HAVE A QUESTION FOR THE
PETITIONER JUST WITH RESPECT TO
MR. GARBER'S QUESTIONS ON
SUSTAINABILITY.
SO IF YOU WANTED TO GIVE US
SOME COMMENTS WITH RESPECT TO
WHAT IS PLANNED FOR THE SITE
,
GO GO GET SURE THEY WANT TO
BETTER UNDERSTAND FULL
ELECTRIFICATION VERSUS NON
GEOTHERMAL SO WE ARE WORKING
WITH WE HAVE A SUSTAINABILITY
CONSULTANT ON BOARD WITH THIS
PROJECT.
THEY'VE HELPED UP TO A POINT
THAT BUT AT SOME POINT YOU HAVE
TO START LOOKING AT THE WHOLE
BUILDING SYSTEMS TO START
REALLY WITH WHAT YOU CAN AND
CAN'T DO.
WE ARE LOOKING AT SOLAR.
WE HAD A SOLAR STUDY DONE AND I
BELIEVE THAT WAS QUOTED THE
THREE HUNDRED NINETY ONE
KILOWATTS THAT WAS DONE.
WE DIDN'T INCLUDE IT IN PART
OF THIS PACKAGE AGAIN BECAUSE
YOU A TRACK EVERYTHING UP TO
THE ROOF, SEE HOW MUCH ROOF
SPACE YOU HAVE TO REALLY DIAL
IN THAT FINAL NUMBER BUT IT IS
BEING DONE.
ONE OTHER THING TO POINT OUT AS
FAR AS SUSTAINABILITY GOES
,
DENHA HAS PARTNERED WITH THIRD
PARTY CALLED WILLDAN.
THEY HAVE A PROGRAM WHERE THEY
LOOK AT YOUR BUILDING THE
ENERGY MODEL IT THREE DIFFERENT
WAYS.
THEY GIVE YOU A BUNCH
OF DIFFERENT THINGS YOU CAN
CHOOSE FROM WITH VARYING
REBATES THAT YOU WILL PROVIDE.
IT'S KIND OF LIKE WILL DOWN TO
HELPING OUT BUT THEN IT'S ALSO
HELPING OUT THE USER AS WELL.
THERE'S A PROGRAM RUNNING
HAVING IT'S CURRENTLY AT THE
END OF THE PILOT WE ARE WORKING
ON THAT AS WELL.
SO WE WERE WORKING ON ALL THESE
FRONTS.
THEY'RE ACTIVE BUT IT'S IT'S
HARD TO DYLON WHAT THE FINAL
PRODUCT IS GOING TO BE.
>> IT IS ALL BEING WORKED ON.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
I'LL GET MY QUESTIONS.
>> I ACTUALLY YOU CAN COME BACK
UP I WANT TO BE JUST A LITTLE
BIT MORE EXPLICIT BECAUSE I
THINK IT'S HELPFUL FOR US TO
KNOW WHAT WE WOULD BE VOTING ON
.
>> SO IT'S BEING WORKED ON
DOESN'T AND PARTICULARLY THAT
THERE'S NOTHING IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT AROUND
THE SITE PLAN THAT SAYS WHERE
OR HOW MUCH SUGGESTS TO ME THAT
WE SHOULD NOT CONSIDER IT LIKE
THIS IS NOT A DONE DEAL, THAT
THIS WILL BE ALL ELECTRIC OR
THAT THERE WILL BE SOLAR.
>> IS THAT FAIR?
>> SORRY, I BELIEVE WE ARE
GOING TO BE DOING AN ALL
ELECTRIC BUILDING.
THE ONLY CAVEAT THAT IS THE
UNDERGROUND PARKING REQUIRES A
LOT OF EXTRA HEAT AND THE
EXHAUST FROM ACHAKZAI MAKE SURE
YOU HAVE FRESH AIR SO THERE MAY
BE A NATURAL GAS COMPONENT TO
THAT JUST THAT PORTION WE'RE
GOING USE ELECTRIC HEAT PUMPS
FOR ALL THE RESIDENTIAL UNITS
AND THEN OH JEEZ I LOST MY
TRAIN OF THOUGHT THERE WAS ONE
OF THE THING BUT IT SLIPPED MY
MIND BUT YEAH WE ARE DOING IN
BUILDING YES.
>> SO SUSTAINABILITY STARTS
WITH A TIGHT BUILDING ENVELOPE
IF THE BUILDING USES LESS BTU'S
OVERALL BECAUSE YOU BUILD IT
RIGHT YOU INSULATE IT PROPERLY
.
IT'S GOT YOU KNOW ER CEILING
IT'S GOT CONTINUOUS INSULATION
.
THESE ARE ALL THINGS THAT ARE
PRIORITIES FOR US.
WE WILL ABSOLUTELY BUILD IT
THAT WAY ONCE YOU GET TO THE
LOWEST BUILDING BTU USAGE THAT
YOU CAN REASONABLY GET TO
INSTALL FOR THE STRUCTURE WHICH
IS GOING TO BE TIGHTER THAN
PROBABLY MOST THINGS YOU'VE
EVEN SEEN IN THE CITY SO FAR
THEN WE WORK ON WHAT KIND
OF SYSTEMS ARE GOING TO DELIVER
THE COMFORT TO THE RESIDENTS
THAT AN ENERGY COST TO THE
RESIDENTS THAT ARE IMPORTANT.
SO WE'RE RIGHT NOW THE THE
SYSTEM WE'RE LOOKING AT IS
GOING TO BE A HIGH EFFICIENCY
COLD WEATHER CERTIFIED ELECTRIC
HEAT PUMP THAT'S THE SYSTEM
OF CHOICE THERE.
THERE MAY BE GAS COMPONENT TO
THE SAFETY.
>> WE WANT TO HAVE A GENERATOR
.
WE DO WANT TO CREATE SOME SAFE
WARM SPACES WITHIN THE BUILDING
THOSE MAY REQUIRE SOME
SUPPLEMENTAL GAS IN CASE
THERE'S A SHUTDOWN ON THE
GENERATOR.
>> CAN'T REALLY DRIVE A LOT
OF HEAT PUMPS SO WE'RE LOOKING
AT THAT AS A SAFETY COMPONENT.
BUT IT'S OUR GOAL TO BE ALL
ELECTRIC IN THE UNITS.
THAT'S THAT'S WHAT WE'RE
ACHIEVING FOR SOME REASON
THAT'S NOT POSSIBLE.
>> I DON'T BELIEVE THAT'S GOING
TO BE THE CASE.
WE'RE LOOKING AT A NEW
GENERATION OF HEAT PUMP THAT I
HOPE WILL BE AVAILABLE BY THE
TIME WE START CONSTRUCTION.
THE TYPICAL HEAT PUMP HAS
ELECTRIC BACKUPS TRIP THAT IS
AN EITHER OR IT IT'S EITHER THE
HEAT PUMPS RUNNING OR IF IT'S
REALLY COLD IT SHUTS OFF THE
ELECTRIC STRIP COMES ON THE NEW
GENERATION OF UNITS HAS A STRIP
THAT COMES ON MARGINALLY.
SO THAT DEPENDS ON HEAT PUMP
ACTIVITY FOR AS LONG AS
POSSIBLE AS THE TEMPERATURE
DROPS.
SO WE THINK THAT THAT WILL
ACTUALLY DELIVER A LOWER COST
TO THE RESIDENT THAN THE
CURRENT STANDARD THAT'S OUT
THERE.
SO THESE ARE THE THINGS WE'RE
LOOKING AT.
THESE ARE THE THINGS THAT WE
ARE DEPENDING UPON OUR
SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT TO
HELP US DETERMINE WE'VE JUST
ENGAGED IN MSP ENGINEER THAT
WILL WORK WITH OUR TEAM AND THE
SUSTAINABILITY CONSULTANT TO
TRY AND GET THIS RIGHT.
>> I APPRECIATE THAT AND I
UNDERSTAND THAT THINGS LIKE
THAT A LOT OF THIS GOES INTO
DEVELOPMENT AFTER YOU KNOW THAT
YOU CAN MOVE FORWARD.
>> SO I TOTALLY GET THAT.
>> WHAT I WANT TO MAKE SURE AND
MAYBE THIS IS A BETTER QUESTION
FOR STAFF AM I MISSING ANYTHING
IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT OR
ON THE SITE PLAN THAT TALKS
ABOUT ENERGY STAR OR ALL
ELECTRIC?
IS THERE ANY TEETH IN WHAT
WE'RE HEARING?
BECAUSE IF IF NOT, THAT'S FINE.
I JUST DON'T WANT TO CONSIDER
IT AS I'M THINKING ABOUT THE
BENEFITS.
>> YEAH.
IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
AND THE SITE PLAN AT THIS POINT
IT'S BEEN THERE'S BEEN A
DISCUSSION ABOUT THE AN ENERGY
STAR CERTIFICATION.
THESE OTHER CONVERSATIONS HAVE
BEEN HAPPENING BUT THERE HASN'T
BEEN A FORMAL DECISION AND FROM
MY UNDERSTANDING FROM THE
DEVELOPMENT TEAM TO IDENTIFY
WHAT FEATURES BEYOND THE ENERGY
STAR SEEKING THE ENERGY STAR
CERTIFICATION THAT WILL BE
INCLUDED.
WHERE IS THAT IN THE SITE
PLANTA I DIDN'T SEE IT IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT ABOUT THE
ENERGY STAR CERTIFICATION.
IT'S IN THE SITE I DO A LITTLE
DIGGING AND THEN I DO HAVE
QUESTIONS ABOUT LIKE WHAT
HAPPENS IF THERE IS AN ENERGY
STAR WHICH IS A LEGIT QUESTION
ELECTRIFICATION SO OR NOT IN
THE DEVELOPMENT.
>> OK SUPER THANK YOU.
I THINK I'M GOING TO A COUPLE
OF OTHER QUESTIONS.
I MEAN THAT'S AN OPTION.
>> THAT'S ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT THIS IS WHY PUSHTU SORRY
AND I PUSHED THAT JUST TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE'RE TALKING LIVE
WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
BECAUSE I KNOW THAT THERE'S
UNDERSTANDING WHAT IS DEFINITE
AND AND WE KNOW WE'LL HAVE AND
WHAT WE HOPE TO HAVE IS I THINK
IMPORTANT AND THAT KIND OF SO
YEAH GO AHEAD.
>> DO YOU WANT TO SAY SOMETHING
SO WE SUBMITTED A RESPONSE
LETTER ON AUGUST FORTY TWENTY
TWENTY FOUR WHERE WE TALK ABOUT
ACHIEVEMENT OF ALL ELECTRIC
HIGH EFFICIENCY APPLIANCES.
THAT'S OUR GOAL.
WE WANT THAT WE REALLY DO.
WE'RE NOT LOOKING TO TELL YOU
ONE THING AND DO ANOTHER.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THIS IS ABOUT.
I'D RATHER NOT RUN GAS LINES
THROUGH THE BUILDING.
I REALLY WOULD.
I DON'T WANT TO DO IT.
IT'S EXPENSIVE.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE AWESOME
AND BECAUSE THAT'S NOT PART
OF THE THINGS THAT WE ARE
APPROVING TONIGHT.
IT'S NOT PART OF THE SITE PLAN
OR IT'S NOT PART OF THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
I I PERSONALLY AM GOING TO
EVALUATE THIS AS IF THAT LETTER
DIDN'T EXIST BECAUSE THERE'S NO
KIND OF TEETH PERSONALLY.
SO I MEAN WE CAN PUT THERE'S
WAYS TO EDIT THE SITE PLAN FOR
THE ZONING TO PUT TEETH IN THAT
BUT THAT'S NOT THAT'S NOT ON
THE TABLE RIGHT NOW OR AT LEAST
THAT'S NOT SOMETHING I CAN DO
RELATED TO THAT THE OTHER WELL
IT'S ACTUALLY NOT I'M GOING TO
LEAVE THAT FOR OTHERS IF
ANYBODY WANTS TO TAKE THAT UP.
THE OTHER THING THAT I
TYPICALLY DO RELATED TO THIS,
ESPECIALLY WHEN IT'S THE
REZONING IS TO UNDERSTAND HOW
THE BUILDING THAT WE'RE SEEING
IN THE SITE PLAN COMPARES TO
WHAT ELSE CAN BE BUILT ON THIS
SITE IF IF FOR SOME REASON THIS
PARTICULAR SITE PLAN DIDN'T GET
BUILT.
SO I KIND OF DID THE COMPARISON
THIS IS SHOWING A HEIGHT
OF FIVE STORIES IN THIS ZONING
DISTRICT THERE'S UNLIMITED
HEIGHT BUT HONESTLY THAT'S NO
DIFFERENT THAN THE OFFICE THERE
NOW.
>> RIGHT.
SO I DON'T REALLY SEE THAT AS A
SUBSTANTIVE CHANGE.
>> ONE OF THE THINGS THAT'S
DIFFERENT IS IN THE NUMBER
OF DWELLING UNITS SO THE
REZONING WOULD ALLOW FOR THREE
HUNDRED AND TWELVE IF MY MATH
IS RIGHT.
>> THREE HUNDRED AND TWELVE
UNITS TO BE BUILT THERE RATHER
THAN TWO HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO.
>> AND I GUESS THIS IS ACTUALLY
A QUESTION WHY NOT MORE
ESPECIALLY SINCE YOU HAVE OTHER
UNDER OUR FORTY AS YOU KNOW
THERE IS A OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT.
PART OF THAT OPEN SPACE
REQUIREMENT CAN BE MET WITH
OUTDOOR AMENITY, THINGS LIKE
BALCONIES AND SO ON.
>> WE WERE CONCERNED THAT WE
WERE NOT GOING TO BE ABLE TO
MEET IT WITH MORE UNITS.
NOW IT MAY BE TRUE THAT WE
COULD MEET DEPENDS HOW MANY
BALCONIES WE PUT IN.
IT DEPENDS IF WE PUT ON
BALCONIES AT ALL.
BUT WE'RE WE'RE GOING TO GET
CLOSE TO THAT LIMIT.
SO THE IDEA OF BUILDING ANOTHER
STORY WOULD HAVE TO BE STUDIED
TO SEE THAT WE MEET THE OPEN
SPACE REQUIREMENT AND I'M NOT
SURE I'M NOT SURE IT WOULD.
YEAH.
SO WE DIDN'T PROPOSE THAT AND
WE'RE NOT INTENDING TO DO THAT.
OK, I WANT THIS TO BE CLEAR.
I'M NOT ASKING YOU TO ADD
ANOTHER STORY.
I'M JUST MAKING CLEAR REZONING
THIS MEANS THAT YOU COULD IN
ANOTHER LIKE THE RESULTING
WOULD STICK WITH THE LAND THE
SITE PLAN CAN CHANGE AND OPEN
SPACE IT IS SHOWING FORTY FIVE
PERCENT OPEN SPACE IS WHAT'S
REQUIRED.
SO IT'S QUITE NICE TO SEE WHERE
YOU'RE CLOSE AND SPECIALLY LIKE
THE ACTIVE OPEN SPACE THIS IS
SHOWING THREE TIMES MORE BIKE
PARKING THAN WHAT IS REQUIRED
BY THE CODE AS CYCLISTS.
I THINK THAT'S AWESOME BUT JUST
TO BE CLEAR IT DOESN'T HAVE TO
HAVE THAT MUCH BIKE LIKE SOME
IF WE REZONE IT IN THE FUTURE
IT DOESN'T NECESSARILY HAVE TO
HAVE AS MUCH BIKE PARKING IS AS
SHOWN ON ON THE SITE.
LANH FROM MY PERSPECTIVE LIKE
NONE THE THE THE STEP BACK
DISTANCES WELL HAVE THE
VARIANCE RIGHT.
BUT THE SADEC DISTANCES ARE ALL
KIND OF IN SOME WAYS MAXED OUT
RIGHT.
LIKE THEY ARE AS CLOSE TO THE
THE ROAD OR THE PROPERTY LINE
AS WHAT THE ZONING WOULD ALLOW.
SO I DON'T
THINK THAT THAT'S
DRAMATICALLY DIFFERENT AND I I
THINK THAT THIS IS AGAIN PRETTY
CLOSE TO KIND OF MAXING OUT
WHAT IS POSSIBLE.
BUT THERE ARE SOME ELEMENTS
JUST TO BE CLEAR WITH EVERYBODY
IF WE WERE TO REASON THAT IN
THE KNOW IT DOESN'T NECESSARILY
MEAN THAT IT WOULD ONLY BE FIVE
STORIES AND IT DOESN'T
NECESSARILY MEAN THAT THERE
WOULD ONLY BE 262 UNITS WHICH
DEPENDING ON WHERE YOU SIT IN
THIS ROOM IT CAN BE GOOD OR BAD
OVERALL I I SWAYED BY THE I
AGREE WITH MOST OF WHAT
COMMISSIONER LEE SAID IN TERMS
OF THE ANALYSIS.
>> WHAT I'M TRYING TO SAY
ESPECIALLY GIVEN GOING FROM
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT FAAT TO
WHATEVER IT IS MORE THAN THAT I
THINK IT'S LIKE THREE TIMES
THAT IS NUMBER THREE ABOUT HOW
THE REZONING WILL BE
ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE CITY AND
JUST THINKING ABOUT THE BALANCE
AND THE MULTIPLE THE MULTIPLE
GOALS THAT WE HAVE FOR THE CITY
AND NOT HAVING THERE'S NOT AN
AFFORDABILITY COMPONENT AS THIS
AND WE DON'T HAVE ANY TEETH IN
THE SUSTAINABILITY COMPONENT
ARE THE THINGS THAT MAKE ME NOT
SURE ABOUT THAT PARTICULAR
CRITERIA JUST FOR WHAT IT'S
WORTH OTHER WHAT ARE WE
COMMISSIONER'S COMMENTS
QUESTIONS THE THAT YES NO
THINKING BENEFIT
.
>> IN THE MEANTIME I HAVE A
QUESTION ABOUT ALL THE TRAFFIC
THINGS THAT WE'VE BEEN HEARING
.
I'M NOT AS INTIMATELY FAMILIAR
WITH THIS AREA AS COMMISSIONER
LEE.
SOMEBODY ONE OF YOU ARE ONE
OF YOU DURING INITIAL
PRESENTATION TALKED ABOUT
PUTTING IN A TRAFFIC LIGHT IF
REQUIRED.
>> WHERE WOULD THAT BE AT OAK
BROOK AND IN OUR SILENE.
YES, WHEN WE MET WITH
TRANSPORTATION THEY HAD A
PROPOSED SITE FOR A FLASHING
CROSSWALK ACROSS AN ENORMOUS
LANE ROAD.
OUR TRAFFIC ENGINEER WAS
CONCERNED THAT IT WAS JUST
NORTH OF THE HILL THAT ONE
OF THE GENTLEMAN SPOKE ABOUT
AND WE WERE CONCERNED ABOUT
SAFETY.
>> WE WANTED TO MOVE THIS
FORWARD.
SO WE SAID LOOK, WE'LL PUT IT
ON THE PLAN WHERE YOU DESIGNATE
IT WITH A NOTE SAYING WE WILL
SUPPLY SOME OTHER INFORMATION
ABOUT PEDESTRIAN SAFETY.
MY RECOMMENDATION FOR A WHOLE
HOST OF REASONS BECAUSE WE ARE
WE ARE CHANGING AND OBVIOUSLY
IN ROAD ENTRANCE INTO THE
SHOPPING CENTER AN EXIT WE ARE
NARROWING THE EXIT PORTION AND
CURVING IT SO YOU CANNOT MAKE A
LEFT HAND TURN OUT THE SHOPPING
CENTER ANYMORE.
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE THAT
PHYSICALLY NOT NOT DOABLE.
THE IDEA THAT PEOPLE HAVE TO
THEN IF THEY WANT TO GO
SOUTHBOUND, MAKE A RIGHT TURN
ON OPRAH PUTS THE SHOPPING
CENTER TRAFFIC ON OAKBROOK OH,
OK.
THIS IS THIS IS JUST THE WAY
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IT AND IT'S
THE WAY THE CENTER WAS
ORIGINALLY DESIGNED.
IT SERVES NO RIGHT TURN AND
PEOPLE ARE LEFT TURN AND PEOPLE
MAKE THE TURN ANYWAY THE CENTER
GENERATES ON A CALM DAY FIFTEEN
HUNDRED VISITS ON A BUSY DAY UP
TO THIRTY EIGHT HUNDRED VISITS.
THERE'S A LOT OF TRAFFIC
GENERATED BY THE CENTER ALREADY
AND WE THOUGHT THAT IT WOULD BE
BETTER FOR OVERALL TRAFFIC IF
PEOPLE COMING OUT OF THE CENTER
CAN TURN BRIGHT THEY CAN COME
OUT OF THE CENTER ON OAKBROOK.
YOU CAN PEGS IT ON THE RECORD.
YOU CAN EXIT ONTO AN ARM
WRESTLING ROAD BUT IN ORDER TO
STOP ALL THE TRAFFIC THAT HAS
TO TURN RIGHT AND GO DOWN TO
EISENHAUER, MAKE A LEFT TURN TO
GO SOUTH, WE THOUGHT A TRAFFIC
LIGHT WOULD BETTER CONTROL
TRAFFIC AND MAKE A SMOOTHER
TRANSITION AND REMOVE SOME
TRAFFIC FROM THAT'S ACTUALLY
GOING TO BE ON OAKBROOK THAT'S
ACTUALLY ON OAK NOW BECAUSE YOU
HAVE TO GO TO GO SOUTH.
THE TRANSPORTATION DEPARTMENT
WANTED TO NOT COMMIT TO THAT.
THEY WANT TO FURTHER STUDY IT.
WE'RE HAPPY TO FURTHER STUDY
IT.
WE HAVE A TRAFFIC ENGINEER WHO
IS GOING TO MODEL THAT FOR THEM
BUT IT'S UP TO THE CITY TO
DECIDE WHETHER THEY WANT TO LET
US DO IT.
WE'RE WILLING TO PAY FOR IT.
WE THINK IT'S A GOOD FEATURE.
WE ALSO THINK THAT A CROSSING A
LIGHT ON A HIGH SPEED ROAD IS
SAFER.
FLASHING CROSSWALKS WORK REALLY
WELL FOR PEDESTRIAN SAFETY
STANDPOINT IF THE SPEED LIMIT
IS THIRTY MILES AN HOUR OR LESS
THERE'S ALREADY FLASHING
CROSSWALK NORTH OF OUR PROPERTY
.
I'VE HEARD ANECDOTAL REPORTS
THAT WHEN SOMEONE CROSSES
ESPECIALLY AT DUSK THEY DON'T
PUSH THE BUTTON AND THEY STEP
OUT INTO THE CROSSWALK.
CARS ARE GOING HOPEFULLY FORTY
FIVE BUT LET'S FACE IT
SOMETIMES THEY'RE GOING FASTER.
WE THINK A LIGHT WOULD BE
BETTER AND SO THAT'S THAT'S HOW
WE WOULD RESPOND TO THAT STAFF
HAVE ANY FEEDBACK FROM
TRANSPORTATION ON THE
POSSIBILITY OF THAT LATE AND IN
SPECIFIC DETAIL AND NOW I KNOW
THOSE CONVERSATIONS HAVE BEEN
GOING ON AND IT'S IN BOTH THE
STAFF'S INTEREST AND I BELIEVE
THE PETITIONER'S INTEREST TO
GET SOME SORT OF ALL AROUND
SOLUTION TO THAT.
BUT THERE ARE A LOT
OF CONVERSATION ABOUT WHICH WAY
TO MOVE FORWARD AT THIS POINT
AND THAT'S MY STAFF
TRANSPORTATION STAFF WAS
PLANNING THINGS LIKE MEDIATION
WAS ABLE TO ALLOW THE PLAN TO
MOVE FORWARD WITH THIS BEING
DEFINED AT A LATER DATE.
THE EXACT TECHNOLOGY, THE
LOCATION FOR FOR THE
INTERVENTION NETWORK AND WHILE
WE'RE JUST WE'RE ON THIS AND
I'LL HAVE THE MICROPHONE UM THE
CONCERNS FROM RESIDENTS AND I'M
STILL TRYING TO ORIENT MYSELF
TO THE SITE AND WHERE THE
BUILDING IS AND WHERE THE EXIT
WOULD BE ONTO FROM THE THE
UNDERGROUND PARKING.
>> RIGHT.
IS IT IS IT ACCURATE TO SAY
THAT YOU WOULD BE PULLING OUT
AND HEADLIGHTS WOULD BE
FLASHING INTO PEOPLE'S YARDS
ORIGINAL CURB CUT AND I CAN SEE
THAT ON THIS MAP.
YEAH.
WAS WAS LOCAL AND THIS WAS PART
OF THE PLAN WAS LOCATED I THINK
FURTHER TO THE NORTH.
OK, AND WE WANTED TO MOVE IT SO
THAT IT WAS NOT ON THE CURVE
AND SO THAT'S WHY WE WE
DEFINITELY WANTED TO MOVE A
LITTLE SOUTH WHEREAS A CURB
CUTS YOUR RIGHT HAND.
IT'S THE PROPOSED ONES RIGHT
THERE.
SO A PROPOSED ONE IS REALLY
WHERE THE BUILDING STARTS TO
ANGLE AND AS A RESULT MOST
OF THE NEIGHBORS WHO ARE
DIRECTLY IN THE CONDOMINIUM ARE
MORE ALONG THE LONG SIDE OF THE
BACK OF THE BUILDING.
AND I THINK THE WAY THE CARS
COME OUT WOULD BE POINTED MORE
TOWARDS WHERE THE ENTRANCE TO
THE PARK IS THAN TO THE TO
RESIDENCES DIRECTLY ACROSS I
DON'T THINK IT'S GOING TO SHINE
DIRECTLY IN THOSE RESIDENCES
OF IF IT IF IT IF IT DOES IS
EITHER MITIGATION THINGS THAT
YOU CAN THINK OF THAT WOULD
WELL WHEN WE FIRST PROPOSED
THIS AND HAD A COMMUNITY
MEETING THERE ARE A NUMBER
OF SPRUCE TREES LOCATED IN YOU
KNOW, BEHIND THE THE PORCHES
OF THE CONDOMINIUMS ON OAK
BROOK AND WE DID SOME NGEL
STUDIES TO SEE OK IF THE
BUILDINGS EXCEED TALL SOMEONE
SITTING ON THEIR DECK, WILL
THEY SEE THE TOP OF THE
BUILDING?
THE CONCLUSION FROM THE PEOPLE
WHO DID THE STUDY WAS NO NOT
THAT NOT AT A FIFTY FIVE FOOT
HEIGHT.
I THINK THOSE TREES ARE ROBUST
ENOUGH AND THEY'RE EVERGREENS
THAT I DON'T THINK OR I THINK
YOU'RE SCREENED ANYWAY IF IF
SCREENING WAS INADEQUATE I
THINK THROUGH VEGETATION WE
MIGHT BE ABLE TO ADDRESS THAT.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
>> THE QUESTION I'M COMING BACK
TO THE SUSTAINABILITY STUFF SO
THE DISCUSSION PART OF THIS
PROJECT IS THE REZONING PUT THE
SITE PLAN THE SITE PLAN YOU'RE
REQUIRING WHAT WE CAN REQUIRE
CURRENTLY RIGHT THERE WE CAN'T
ASK THEM GIVEN OUR CURRENT
REGULATIONS TO DO MORE THAN
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IN TERMS
OF SPECIFIC ELECTRIFICATION
ACTIVITIES.
CORRECT.
YOU CAN ASK BUT I WOULD NOT
ADVISE YOU ESTABLISHING THAT AS
THE STANDARD FOR SITE APPROVAL
WE COULD ASK AND THEY COULD
GIVE IT DISCRETION EARLY BUT WE
CANNOT REQUIRE IT BECAUSE WE
DON'T HAVE RIGHT ON THE ZONING
CRITERIA.
PART OF THIS IS YOU ARE SAYING
YOU ARE CONSIDERING WHETHER OR
NOT THE CHANGE THE ZONING ER IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS AREA.
I WOULDN'T SAY THAT A LOT
OF THE CRITERIA ARE MORE
FOCUSED ON LAND USE WHEN WE'RE
WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A LOT
OF THE CRITERIA, THE CONTEXT
OF THE AREA AND ITS PROXIMITY
TO OTHER LAND USES, I HONESTLY
THINK A LOT OF THOSE APPLY
REGARDLESS OF SOME OF THE
SPECIFICS AROUND HOW THE
BUILDING IS CONSTRUCTED.
BUT THAT'S WHAT WE'RE HERE
ASKING FOR A REZONING TO THE
COUNCIL.
THANK YOU
, COMMISSIONER ADAMS
AND COMMISSIONER LEIGH.
>> YEAH, I DON'T HAVE A LOT TO
SAY.
I FULLY SUPPORT THE PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S ONE OF THE MORE
THOUGHTFUL REZONING REQUESTS
THAT WE RECEIVED OVER THE LAST
COUPLE OF YEARS.
I THINK THAT THE AREA HERE IS
APPROPRIATE FOR THIS SCALE,
THIS KIND OF HOUSING DENSITY IS
WELL SERVED BY SHOPPING
COMMERCIAL TRANSIT.
THE SITE CURRENTLY PERMITS I
WOULD NOTE AN OFFICE BUILDING
THAT'S ALMOST EXACTLY AS TALL
AS THIS PROJECT IS BY RIGHT.
I CAN'T BE QUITE AS LARGE ONE
OF THE FAA RULES BUT IN TERMS
OF THE HEIGHT CONCERNS THAT I
HEARD TONIGHT I HAVE AN OFFICE
BUILDING COULD BE BUILT HERE
TODAY THAT'S UP TO FIFTY FIVE
FEET TALL AND AGAIN THAT
BUILDING COULD BE CONSTRUCTED
BY WRIGHT AND IT WOULDN'T
ADDRESS SO MANY OF THE OTHER
ISSUES RESIDENT NEEDS AND OTHER
AMENITIES THAT THIS PROJECT
PROVIDES.
I THINK IT'S A MEANINGFUL
IMPROVEMENT IN DENSITY WITHOUT
BEING OUT OF SCALE.
IT'S A PRODUCTIVE USE OF A
PARCEL THAT'S UNUSED SINCE THE
END OF THE SECOND WORLD WAR.
I MEAN I THINK WE HAVE TO TAKE
THAT TYPE OF OPPORTUNITY.
I'M NOT GOING TO ADDRESS THE
RESULTING STANDARDS.
I THINK THOSE WERE WELL
COVERED BY COMMISSIONER LEE.
BUT I WOULD SAY IN TERMS
OF CHANGED CIRCUMSTANCES NOTING
AGAIN THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
RESOLUTIONS FROM LAST YEAR
COUNCIL DIRECTED US TO
PRIORITIZE THE DEVELOPMENT
OF AS MUCH HOUSING AS IS
FEASIBLE UNDER EXISTING RULES
AND ZONING REQUIREMENTS AND I
THINK THAT IS A REFLECTION
OF THE CHANGED CIRCUMSTANCES
OF OUR CITY RELATIVE TO THIS
REZONING REQUEST THAT WE NEED
TO AIR ON THE SIDE OF APPROVING
PROJECTS LIKE THIS AND REZONING
REQUESTS WHEN THEY COME IN IN
LIGHT OF THE CHANGE
CIRCUMSTANCES OF THE CITY'S
HOUSING REQUIREMENTS AND NEEDS
AND I GUESS THAT'S PART
OF WHERE I'M TRYING TO BALANCE
I CERTAINLY HEAR YOU HAVE
SEVENTY FIVE PERCENT FBAR WITH
NO LIMITATIONS ON THAT.
THAT'S OFFICE.
SO IF YOU'RE KIND OF LIKE
DENSIFYING IF YOU HAD A SMALLER
STRUCTURE AND SO I'M JUST
THINKING THROUGH WHAT WE'VE
OFTEN TALKED ABOUT BLOCK
LENGTH.
RIGHT?
I THINK WE'VE TALKED ABOUT
BLOCK LENGTHS AND AD NAUSEUM
DIFFERENT ZONES AND I THINK IT
HAS TO DO WITH THE JUST GIVEN
MY FAMILIARITY WITH IT AND
AGAIN I CERTAINLY AGREE WITH
YOU ON A LOT OF THE POINTS.
THE OTHER QUESTION HAS TO DO
WITH I THINK THE EXISTING
SHOPPING CENTER HAS TO BE WHAT
TWENTY FOUR TWENTY EIGHT FEET
OR SOMETHING LIKE THAT RIGHT
NOW LET THAT BE MY GUESS IF I
HAD TO JUST KIND OF MAYBE A 30
FOOT SO MY THINKING IS THINKING
THROUGH OK WHAT IS THE APPROACH
OF THE VISTA OF AUTO CENTRIC.
THIS IS AN AUTO CENTRIC
CORRIDOR ESPECIALLY ON THE AND
OBVIOUSLY AND REALLY MY THOUGHT
IS GOING TOWARDS OK BUT BECAUSE
THAT IS A LITTLE MORE
NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD TOGETHER
I'M PART OF THAT NEIGHBORHOOD
AND SO I'M THINKING THROUGH
AGAIN THE DEVELOPMENT IS
ORIENTED WITH ITS BACK TOWARDS
THAT PARTICULAR NEIGHBORHOOD
AND IT HAS TO DO WITH THAT LINK
THAT STRETCH THE SEAT THAT
WHICH IS REALLY KIND OF FACED
AGAINST THE PARK WHICH IS A
VERY WELL TRAVERSED PART AND
FRANKLY FROM MY STANDPOINT I
ACTUALLY REALLY WELCOME THE
OPPORTUNITY FOR MORE NEIGHBORS
TO BE ABLE TO JOIN US ON THAT
PARK BECAUSE IT'S A BEAUTIFUL
WALK.
IT REALLY IS.
AND SO IT HAS TO DO WITH THE
AND I THINK THE FRAMEWORK THAT
I THINK SOME OF THE
COMMISSIONERS ARE KIND
OF DEBATING THEMSELVES IS THAT
THERE'S KIND OF A THREE X AND
AH THAT'S BEING PERMITTED HERE
IN EXCHANGE FOR WHAT EXACTLY
RIGHT.
AND SO DENSIFICATION I THINK
I'VE LISTED ALL THE BENEFITS
AND SO WHAT I AM TRYING TO SAY
IS IS IT IN SCALE ESPECIALLY
THAT KIND OF LIKE LENGTH YOUR
BLOCK WHICH ITS BACK IS I THINK
AS YOU APPROACH IT I DO THINK
IT IS ACTUALLY GOING TO BE AN
ATTRACTIVE IT LOOKS LIKE A GOOD
BUILDING.
YOU HAVE SELECTED GOOD MATERIAL
AND AND I KNOW HOW MUCH WORK
GOES TO THE SITE AND BELIEVE
AND THAT'S WHY I HESITATE TO
BRING THESE THINKING THROUGH
LIKE OK WHAT DOES IT LOOK LIKE
IF WE HAD A MODIFICATION OF THE
SITE ORIENTATION TO HAVE A MORE
WELCOMING FEEL AND I'M LIKE OH
GOSH IF I TRY TO ASK MY
ARCHITECTS THAT BUT BUT THAT
BEING SAID I AM THINKING
THROUGH PUBLIC BENEFITS
RELATIVE TO THE REZONING.
I AM STILL OF THE OPINION THAT
THERE IS A SATISFIED SECTION
OF THE SIX POINTS THAT ARE I
THINK I'VE ACTUALLY BEEN PRETTY
CLEAR ON THAT PARTICULAR POINT
BUT MY QUESTION IS RELATIVE TO
SCALE AND I'D LOVE TO HEAR FROM
PETITIONERS ON HOW THEY'VE
THOUGHT THROUGH KIND
OF EXPERIENCE OF SPECIFIC
NEIGHBORS THAT WHICH THE
ORIENTATION OF THE SITE REALLY
KIND OF SITS WITH.
IT'S TOO AND THAT'S THE
NEIGHBORS THAT ARE BASICALLY
HERE.
SO I GOT THE KIND HERE FROM THE
THE ARCHITECT'S DESIGN ON HOW
THEY UNDERSTOOD THAT AND HOW WE
COULD TRY TO LESSEN SOME OF THE
IMPACTS OF THE KIND OF MASSING
OF SOMETHING THAT IS A LONGER,
LONGER BLOCK ON OAKBROOK.
SO I DON'T I DON'T KNOW IF
THERE'S A REAL QUESTION BUT I
JUST LOVE FOR US THINK THROUGH
THAT TOGETHER TO GO
SOMETIMES
WE GET COMPLAINTS THAT THE
DELIVERY TRUCKS TO WHOLE FOODS
COME TOO EARLY IN THE MORNING
AND MAKE TOO MUCH NOISE.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
YOU'VE LOOKED AT THE BACK
OF THE SHOPPING CENTER WHERE
THE SAUSAGE IS MADE SO TO
SPEAK.
IT'S NOT ATTRACTIVE BUT THIS
BUILDING IS ATTRACTIVE.
WE DESIGNED IT TO BE
ATTRACTIVE.
ESTHETICALLY PLEASING AND WE
WE DESIGNED IT TO BE
DID WHEN WE LOOKED AT THE
ESTHETICALLY PLEASING AND WE
NEIGHBORS WE DID TAKE NOTE
DID WHEN WE LOOKED AT THE
OF THE PLANTINGS ACROSS THE
NEIGHBORS WE DID TAKE NOTE
STREET WHICH ARE ROBUST AND YOU
OF THE PLANTINGS ACROSS THE
CAN EVEN SEE THEM ON THE GOOGLE
STREET WHICH ARE ROBUST AND YOU
STREET VIEWS THERE.
CAN EVEN SEE THEM ON THE GOOGLE
I THINK SPRUCE TREES, THE WIND
STREET VIEWS THERE.
AT THE BOTTOM THEY'RE EVERGREEN
I THINK SPRUCE TREES, THE WIND
AND THAT'S PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE
AT THE BOTTOM THEY'RE EVERGREEN
SCREENING IF THEY NEEDED MORE
AND THAT'S PERFECTLY ACCEPTABLE
SCREENING WOULD WE PUT MORE
SCREENING IF THEY NEEDED MORE
TREES UP FOR THEM, YOU KNOW, TO
SCREENING WOULD WE PUT MORE
HELP THE SCREENING?
TREES UP FOR THEM, YOU KNOW, TO
ABSOLUTELY.
HELP THE SCREENING?
I MEAN WE DON'T WANT UNHAPPY
ABSOLUTELY.
NEIGHBORS THERE, PROBABLY
I MEAN WE DON'T WANT UNHAPPY
CUSTOMERS OF THE SHOPPING
NEIGHBORS THERE, PROBABLY
CENTER.
CUSTOMERS OF THE SHOPPING
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO BE HAPPY
CENTER.
OPENING THE BUILDING TO THE
SO I WANT EVERYONE TO BE HAPPY
WEST BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE THE
OPENING THE BUILDING TO THE
SETTING SUN IS WAS REALLY
WEST BECAUSE THAT'S WHERE THE
IMPORTANT IN FIGURING OUT THE
SETTING SUN IS WAS REALLY
BUILDING ORIENTATION.
IMPORTANT IN FIGURING OUT THE
I MEAN COULD YOU HAVE REVERSED
BUILDING ORIENTATION.
IT?
I MEAN COULD YOU HAVE REVERSED
I DON'T THINK SO.
IT?
THE MAIN ENTRANCE FOR PEOPLE
I DON'T THINK SO.
WHO ARE COMING TO THE FIRST
THE MAIN ENTRANCE FOR PEOPLE
TIME TO THE TO THE YOU KNOW, TO
WHO ARE COMING TO THE FIRST
MAYBE SEEK OUT AN APARTMENT,
TIME TO THE TO THE YOU KNOW, TO
THEY'RE GOING TO COME OFF OF AN
MAYBE SEEK OUT AN APARTMENT,
WRESTLING ROAD.
THEY'RE GOING TO COME OFF OF AN
THEY'RE GOING TO COME BY THAT
WRESTLING ROAD.
SHOPPING CENTER ENTRANCE SO THE
THEY'RE GOING TO COME BY THAT
BUILDING IS ORIENTED IN THAT
SHOPPING CENTER ENTRANCE SO THE
DIRECTION IN PART FOR THE LIGHT
BUILDING IS ORIENTED IN THAT
THE SUNLIGHT THAT COMES FROM
DIRECTION IN PART FOR THE LIGHT
THE WEST WHICH IS PREDOMINANT
THE SUNLIGHT THAT COMES FROM
BUT ALSO FROM THE APPROACH FROM
THE WEST WHICH IS PREDOMINANT
AN OBVIOUSLY WHERE SOMEONE
BUT ALSO FROM THE APPROACH FROM
WHO'S NOT A RESIDENT IS GOING
AN OBVIOUSLY WHERE SOMEONE
TO ENTER.
WHO'S NOT A RESIDENT IS GOING
SO THAT'S WHY WE ARE THAT WAY.
TO ENTER.
WE HAVE THE GARAGE ORIENTED TO
SO THAT'S WHY WE ARE THAT WAY.
OPEN BECAUSE WE WANT TO SPREAD
WE HAVE THE GARAGE ORIENTED TO
OUT THAT TRAFFIC.
OPEN BECAUSE WE WANT TO SPREAD
WE DON'T NECESSARILY WANT TO
OUT THAT TRAFFIC.
ADD TO THE CONGESTION OF THE
WE DON'T NECESSARILY WANT TO
SHOPPING CENTER TRAFFIC BY
ADD TO THE CONGESTION OF THE
PUTTING THE RESIDENT TRAFFIC IN
SHOPPING CENTER TRAFFIC BY
THE SAME TRAFFIC PATTERN.
PUTTING THE RESIDENT TRAFFIC IN
AND SO THAT'S WHY IT WAS IT WAS
THE SAME TRAFFIC PATTERN.
DESIGNED THAT WAY
AND SO THAT'S WHY IT WAS IT WAS
INTENTIONALLY.
DESIGNED THAT WAY
GOT IT.
INTENTIONALLY.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER.
GOT IT.
AND YOU'RE ABOUT TO BE PRESENT
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER.
.
AND YOU'RE ABOUT TO BE PRESENT
>> OH, DID YOU WANT TO RESPOND
.
TO YES.
>> OH, DID YOU WANT TO RESPOND
I'M SORRY I JUST THREE REALLY
TO YES.
QUICK POINTS TO MAKE.
I'M SORRY I JUST THREE REALLY
SO WE THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
QUICK POINTS TO MAKE.
SO WE HAVE THE OUTDOOR SPACE AS
SO WE THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT
BEING SHIELDED BY THE BUILDING
SO WE HAVE THE OUTDOOR SPACE AS
TO THE NEIGHBORS.
BEING SHIELDED BY THE BUILDING
SO I THINK THAT'S GOING TO LESS
TO THE NEIGHBORS.
NOISE BEING BROADCAST OUT
SO I THINK THAT'S GOING TO LESS
TOWARDS NEIGHBORS.
NOISE BEING BROADCAST OUT
I THINK THAT'S A POSITIVE ONE
TOWARDS NEIGHBORS.
THING I DO WANT TO POINT OUT AS
I THINK THAT'S A POSITIVE ONE
WELL AS WE DID REDUCE THE
THING I DO WANT TO POINT OUT AS
BUILDING HEIGHT FOUR FEET FROM
WELL AS WE DID REDUCE THE
THE LAST TIME WE PRESENTED THIS
BUILDING HEIGHT FOUR FEET FROM
PROJECT TO THE CITIZEN
THE LAST TIME WE PRESENTED THIS
PARTICIPATION MEETINGS.
PROJECT TO THE CITIZEN
I JUST WANT THAT TO BE ON THE
PARTICIPATION MEETINGS.
RECORD FROM THE FIRST FLOOR TO
I JUST WANT THAT TO BE ON THE
THE ROOF LINE HAS DROPPED FOUR
RECORD FROM THE FIRST FLOOR TO
FEET AND THAT'S ALL DUE TO
THE ROOF LINE HAS DROPPED FOUR
TAKING THE PARKING AND PUTTING
FEET AND THAT'S ALL DUE TO
IT BELOW BUILDING SO WE ARE
TAKING THE PARKING AND PUTTING
ABLE TO SHORTEN THE BUILDING
IT BELOW BUILDING SO WE ARE
AND THEN ALSO KIND
ABLE TO SHORTEN THE BUILDING
OF REITERATING A POINT THAT I
AND THEN ALSO KIND
MADE EARLIER.
OF REITERATING A POINT THAT I
WE THINK HAVING RESIDENTS ON
MADE EARLIER.
OAKBROOK FACING OAKBROOK
WE THINK HAVING RESIDENTS ON
ACTIVATING THAT STREET IS A
OAKBROOK FACING OAKBROOK
LITTLE MORE IT'S JUST GOING TO
ACTIVATING THAT STREET IS A
MAKE THAT A NICE WALK.
LITTLE MORE IT'S JUST GOING TO
>> I FEEL AS YOU'RE DRIVING
MAKE THAT A NICE WALK.
DOWN THERE EVERYTHING THAT THAT
>> I FEEL AS YOU'RE DRIVING
ALSO IS GOING TO BE BEAUTIFUL.
DOWN THERE EVERYTHING THAT THAT
I LIKE THAT.
ALSO IS GOING TO BE BEAUTIFUL.
THANKS NOW COMMISSIONER WITH
I LIKE THAT.
ME.
THANKS NOW COMMISSIONER WITH
>> SO WHEN I LOOK AT THIS, DO I
ME.
WANT A SUSTAINABLE BUILDING?
>> SO WHEN I LOOK AT THIS, DO I
ABSOLUTELY.
WANT A SUSTAINABLE BUILDING?
AND I ASSUME THAT THE DEVELOPER
ABSOLUTELY.
IS ALSO WANT A SUSTAINABLE
AND I ASSUME THAT THE DEVELOPER
BUILDING TO SUSTAINABLE
IS ALSO WANT A SUSTAINABLE
BUILDING BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
BUILDING TO SUSTAINABLE
TENANTS WANT NOW.
BUILDING BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT
AND I THINK THAT THAT IS AN
TENANTS WANT NOW.
IMPORTANT THING TO REMEMBER IS
AND I THINK THAT THAT IS AN
THAT WE ANN ARBOR DOES HAVE A
IMPORTANT THING TO REMEMBER IS
CERTAIN REPUTATION AND PEOPLE
THAT WE ANN ARBOR DOES HAVE A
DON'T WANT TO GO INTO AN
CERTAIN REPUTATION AND PEOPLE
APARTMENT BUILDING KNOWING IT'S
DON'T WANT TO GO INTO AN
OLD TECHNOLOGY.
APARTMENT BUILDING KNOWING IT'S
THEY LIKE THE IDEA THAT IT'S
OLD TECHNOLOGY.
NEW TECHNOLOGY AND I'VE SEEN
THEY LIKE THE IDEA THAT IT'S
BUILDINGS AROUND ME REALLY
NEW TECHNOLOGY AND I'VE SEEN
CAPITALIZE ON THAT.
BUILDINGS AROUND ME REALLY
THAT SAID, IT'S NOT IN THE
CAPITALIZE ON THAT.
AGREEMENT.
THAT SAID, IT'S NOT IN THE
WE CAN'T REALLY CONSIDER IT.
AGREEMENT.
BUT WHEN I LOOK AT THIS
WE CAN'T REALLY CONSIDER IT.
PROPOSAL AND ONE OF THE THINGS
BUT WHEN I LOOK AT THIS
IN THE ZIBA NEIGHBOR SAID THIS
PROPOSAL AND ONE OF THE THINGS
AREA IS A WALKER'S PARADISE AND
IN THE ZIBA NEIGHBOR SAID THIS
TO ME THE IDEA THAT WE HAVE A
AREA IS A WALKER'S PARADISE AND
WALKER'S PARADISE WITH TWO
TO ME THE IDEA THAT WE HAVE A
GROCERY STORES WITHIN WALKING
WALKER'S PARADISE WITH TWO
DISTANCE WHICH JUST IS THE ONLY
GROCERY STORES WITHIN WALKING
PLACE REALLY IN TOWN THAT HAS
DISTANCE WHICH JUST IS THE ONLY
TWO GROCERY STORES WITHIN
PLACE REALLY IN TOWN THAT HAS
WALKING DISTANCE, I I THINK
TWO GROCERY STORES WITHIN
IT'S SORT OF IMPERATIVE FOR US
WALKING DISTANCE, I I THINK
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF WHAT WE
IT'S SORT OF IMPERATIVE FOR US
CAN TO MAKE IT AN AREA WHERE
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF WHAT WE
MORE PEOPLE CAN LIVE AND
YOU
KNOW, EVERY BUILDING HAS PROS
AND CONS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I'VE
LEARNED IN A NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE
I'VE HAD A LOT OF BUILDINGS
THERE'S SIX STORY APARTMENT
BUILDINGS DOWN THE STREET FROM
A FOUR STORY APARTMENT, THREE
STORIES THE WHOLE THING
CONSTRUCTION IS TERRIBLE.
I WON'T LIE ABOUT THAT AND
THAT'S A PAIN.
BUT ONCE THOSE BUILDINGS GET
BUILT, BIG APARTMENT BUILDINGS
ARE ACTUALLY VERY QUIET AND
THEY PROTECT RESIDENTS BEHIND
THEM FROM TRAFFIC NOISE AND
THAT WAS AN UNEXPECTED BONUS
FOR US WHEN WE HAD I LIVE SORT
OF NEAR THE RAILROAD TRACKS AND
THEY PUT A FOUR STORY BUILDING
UP AND WE ACTUALLY
HEAR LESS
TRAFFIC.
SO FROM THE TRAIN WE HEAR LESS
STREET TRAFFIC.
SO I THINK WELL IT CAN BE BAD
IN SOME WAYS.
I THINK THERE ARE ADVANTAGES TO
THE AREAS BEHIND THIS BUILDING
ARE GOING TO BE THEY'RE GOING
TO FEEL VERY PROTECTED REALLY
FROM THE TRAFFIC OF AN
OBVIOUSLY AND ROAD.
I DO THINK THAT THE FACT THAT
WE HAVE A DEVELOPER WHO'S
WILLING TO PUT IN A TRAFFIC
LIGHT TRAFFIC LIGHTS ARE VERY
EXPENSIVE AND THE FACT THAT WE
COULD MAYBE ACTUALLY GET A
FAULTY TRAFFIC LIGHT NOT JUST A
CROSSWALK WHICH I THINK WOULD
BE SCARY HERE DEFINITELY JUST A
PLAIN DRESS CROSSWALK.
I THINK THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
I HOPE THE TRANSPORT DEPARTMENT
ACCEPTS THAT.
I THINK THE STORMWATER IS
PROBABLY GOING TO BE BETTER.
>> I JUST I DON'T SEE I WANT
EVERYTHING WE ALL WANT
EVERYTHING BUT THIS GETS US
PRETTY CLOSE AND IT MAY NOT BE
EVERYTHING WE WANT.
IT MAY NOT BE EVERYTHING THE
NEIGHBORS WANT BUT IT SEEMS
LIKE A REALLY GOOD PROPOSAL AND
SOMETHING THAT GETS TO THE CITY
WHERE WE WHERE WE REALLY WANT
WHICH HELPS ALL OF US AND I
DON'T I HONESTLY BECAUSE I HAVE
THE EXPERIENCE OF LIVING WITH
NEW APARTMENT BUILDINGS I DON'T
THINK I CAN HONESTLY SAY IT'S
IT'S NOT GOING TO LESSEN YOUR
QUALITY OF LIFE.
IT'S IT'S IT JUST ISN'T AFTER
IT'S CONSTRUCTED CONSTRUCTION
WILL BE BETTER BECAUSE
CONSTRUCTION IS JUST
UNCOMFORTABLE AND AND I DON'T
KNOW IF THERE'S ANY WAY
OF MAKING BETTER BUT BUT I I'M
ACTUALLY PRETTY HAPPY THAT THIS
HAS COME UP.
WE DON'T HAVE VERY MANY SITES
LIKE US IN TOWN.
THE ONES NEAR ME DEMOLISHED IT
HOUSES SOME BUSINESSES AND YOU
AND I STILL LIKE IT BUT THAT
WAS A LITTLE BIT DIFFICULT.
>> SO THE FACT THAT WE CAN HAVE
A PLAIN LOT AND AND PUT NEW
HOUSING ON THERE I THINK IS A
BIG BOON.
SO THAT'S A BRIDGE AT THIS.
>> I JUST HAVE TWO QUICK
QUESTIONS BECAUSE EVERYBODY WAS
SO DETAILED AND COMMISSIONER
LEE, THANK YOU FOR YOUR
SYSTEMATIC WORKING THROUGH THE
I TOOK DETAILED NOTES SO I CAN
DO THAT.
>> I JUST WANTED TO KNOW THERE
IS A QUESTION IN THE
SUSTAINABILITY IN THE
CORRESPONDENCE WITH THE
SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE ABOUT
WHETHER THE SHARED AREAS WILL
BE ELECTRIC HEATED OR GAS
HEATED AND I KNOW THAT YOU
TALKED ABOUT REFUGE AREAS AND
THOSE WOULD BE LIKELY SERVED BY
GAS BECAUSE A GAS GENERATOR
WOULD BE MORE ADEQUATE TO THAT
PURPOSE.
BUT SO YOU'VE TALKED ABOUT
YOU'VE SPECIFIED THAT YOU
ANTICIPATE THE UNITS BEING ALL
ELECTRIC AND WHILE I AGREE WE
PROBABLY SHOULDN'T WEIGH THAT
TOO HEAVILY BECAUSE IT ISN'T IN
THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT, IT
IS STILL A FEATURE OF THE PLAN.
SO I'M HAPPY TO SEE IT THERE
AND HOPE IT STAYS.
BUT WHAT IS THE PLAN FOR THE
COMMON AREAS OF THE OF THE
RESIDENTIAL BUILDING?
WELL, WE WE TEND TO HAVE THE
MAJORITY OF THE COMMON AREAS BE
ELECTRIC AS WELL.
WE'VE OWNED CRANBROOK CENTER
FOR TWENTY YEARS.
I DON'T WANT TO BADMOUTH DTG
BUT WE SEEM TO HAVE A PROBLEM
WITH THE TRANSFORMERS AND THE
GRID.
WE'VE HAD NUMEROUS COMPLAINTS
FROM OUR TENANTS THAT THE
BROWNOUTS BURN OUT THEIR
EQUIPMENT PRETTY PRETTY OFTEN.
>> SO MY CONCERN WITH A MID
RISE STRUCTURE IS IF I CAN HAVE
AN EMERGENCY BACKUP GENERATOR
AND WITHOUT MAKING IT SO
ENORMOUSLY LARGE AS TO BECOME
UNWORKABLE IF I CAN CREATE
REFUGE SPACES OR SOME COMMON
SOME PART OF THE COMMON AREAS
OR MAYBE IT'S EVEN THE HALLWAYS
I DON'T KNOW SO THAT PEOPLE ARE
TOTALLY DISPLACED IF THERE WAS
A TWO OR THREE DAY ELECTRICITY
OUTAGE DURING THE WINTER ICE
STORM, WHATEVER THE CASE MAY
BE, I WOULD LIKE TO NOT HAVE TO
THINK THAT PEOPLE IMMEDIATELY
HAVE TO ALL MOVE OUT OF THE
BUILDING.
SO FROM A SAFETY STANDPOINT WE
ARE CONSIDERING WHETHER OR NOT
THAT MAKES SENSE BUT ON A
REGULAR BASIS DO I WANT THE
COMMON AREAS TO BE ELECTRIC?
>> YES.
OK, THAT'S THAT'S GOOD.
YOU DO I MEAN THANK THANK YOU
FOR THAT ANSWER.
AND THEN WHAT ABOUT SOME A FEW
MORE TREES I SEE SOME ON THE
ARCHITECTURAL RENDERINGS JUST
BETWEEN THE BUILDING AND
OAKBROOK.
I THINK WHAT WE'VE SHOWN IS
SOMEWHAT REPRESENTATIVE
CERTAINLY I LIKE TREES.
I LIVE IN A NEIGHBORHOOD
OF TREES AND I LOVE TREES.
SO TO THE EXTENT THAT WE HAVE
THE ROOM AND IT MAKES SENSE WE
WOULD ABSOLUTELY CONSIDER
PUTTING MORE TREES.
>> IT WOULD BE GREAT BECAUSE I
CAN ENVISION IT BEING A KIND
OF A LONG WALK AROUND THE BACK
SIDE OF THE BUILDING.
>> IF SOMEONE WERE DOING THAT
AND PEOPLE MIGHT YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE WHO LIVE IN THOSE CONDOS
MIGHT BE WALKING TO THE
SHOPPING CENTER WHO KNOWS AND
THAT WOULD BE NICE FOR THEM.
>> BUT YOU KNOW ABSOLUTELY.
WE WILL TAKE A LOOK AT THAT FOR
SURE.
THANKS, POSITIONALLY.
FINAL THOUGHTS FROM GOOD
POLICIES ABOUT TRADE OFFS AND
AGAIN, WHILE THIS IMPACTS I
THINK US DIRECTLY, I STILL
THINK THIS IS A GOOD PROJECT
OVERALL.
I THINK IT WILL LOOK
ATTRACTIVE.
I THINK THAT I HOPE THAT THE
PETITIONER IS ABLE TO USE
MATERIALITY TO CREATE A LOT
OF VISUAL AND ARCHITECTURAL
ATTRACTIVE TO IT.
THEN I REALLY HOPE THAT SHE
TAKES THE CITY'S REQUEST FOR
SUSTAINABILITY ALSO SERIOUSLY
BECAUSE THE CHALLENGE IS THAT
THE VALUES THAT WE ARE TASKED
WITH IS AFFORDABILITY AND
SUSTAINABILITY AND WHILE WE'RE
NOT PUTTING TEETH ON THAT
DIRECTLY, WE HOPE THAT YOU JOIN
US ON MAKING THIS CITY A LITTLE
BIT MORE ACCESSIBLE, A LITTLE
BIT MORE BEAUTIFUL.
AND SO YEAH, YOU'RE LOOKING AT
ALL OF THOSE DIFFERENT POINTS.
SO I SAW ONE COMMENT ABOUT THAT
FOR AND THIS IS WHY HEAT PUMPS
MAKES SENSE THE MODERN HEAT
PUMPS IF YOU HAVE A GAS FURNACE
EVEN IF IT'S NINETY FIVE
PERCENT IT TAKES A BTU
OF ENERGY AND A GAS FURNACE TO
CREATE ONE BTU OF HEAT THE
MODERATE HEAT PUMPS ASSUMING
YOU'RE NOT BELOW THE ZERO
DEGREES OR TEN DEGREES CAN
DELIVER THREE BTUS OF HEAT FOR
EVERY ONE BTU OF ELECTRICAL
INPUT THEY ARE B THEIR NATURE
MORE EFFICIENT IN GAS AND IF
YOU COUPLE THAT WITH THE PROPER
BUILDING ENVELOPE IT MAKES IT
ONLY MAKES SENSE TO DO THAT.
I MEAN THE ECONOMIES ARE THERE
THERE'S ONLY REALLY TWO MONTHS
OF THE YEAR WHERE IT'S A
CHALLENGE AND IN THE SUMMER
THEY'RE MORE EFFICIENT AT
COOLING BECAUSE THEY'RE JUST
MORE EFFICIENT PERIOD.
AND THEN THE SHOULDER SEASONS
WHICH WE HAVE LONG SHOULDER
SEASONS IN THE SPRING AND FALL
THERE FOR SURE WAY MORE
EFFICIENT THAN TURNING ON THE
GAS FURNACE.
SO WE HEAR YOU AND WE WANT TO
MAKE WE WANT TO DO THE RIGHT
THING FOR THE RESIDENTS AT THE
END OF THE DAY WE WANT TO MAKE
SURE THE COST IS RIGHT AND
RIGHT NOW IT'S LOOKING THAT
THAT HEAT PUMPS ARE THE WAY TO
DO GO.
THANK YOU, MR. I APPRECIATE
THAT AND I WANT ALL OF YOUR
ANALYSIS TO HAVE WHAT YOU'RE
TELLING US AND IT MAKES MY JOB
AND I ALSO RECOGNIZE THAT
THERE'S TWO ACTIONS FOR US THE
REZONING AND THE SITE PLAN IN
IN MY MIND MAKING SURE THAT
FUTURE DEVELOPERS IF FOR SOME
REASON THIS DOESN'T PAN OUT AND
FUTURE DEVELOPERS WHO MAY NOT
BE AS ENLIGHTENED TOWARDS THE
LIKE BEAUTIES OF HEAT PUMPS IN
HELPING ENSURE THAT THAT THAT
IS A BENEFIT COMES ALONG WITH
IT BECAUSE WE DON'T HAVE TO WE
DON'T GET TO HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION AGAIN.
RIGHT.
LIKE THIS IS THE TIME AND SO
THAT MAKES IT A LOT EASIER FOR
FOR ME TO MAKE A DETERMINATION
ON THE NUMBER THREE ABOUT THIS
BEING ADVANTAGEOUS ADVANTAGEOUS
ALIBABA ADVANTAGEOUS TO THE
CITY AND SO I JUST FOR MY
BENEFIT AND FOR YEARS BEFORE I
VOTE, I WANT TO JUST MAKE SURE
THAT THAT'S NOT SOMETHING THAT
YOU WANT TO PUT IN WRITING
SOMEWHERE.
>> WELL, I DON'T LIKE PUTTING
STUFF IN WRITING BUT BUT I WILL
TELL YOU THAT THE ENERGY STAR
CRITERIA DEMANDS MORE THAN JUST
EFFICIENCY DEMANDS INDOOR AIR
QUALITY AND THIS IS A BIG DEAL.
THERE'S NOTHING MORE
UNATTRACTIVE THAN WALKING DOWN
A HALLWAY IN AN APARTMENT
COMPLEX AND SMELLING EVERYTHING
BECAUSE THERE'S NO AIR
TURNOVER.
SO HOW DO WE ACHIEVE HIGH
INDOOR AIR QUALITY WHICH I
THINK IS ESSENTIAL FOR A
PROJECT LIKE THIS IF NO ONE'S
GOING TO COME LIVE FOR TWO
YEARS AND STAY THERE BEYOND TWO
YEARS, IF IT'S SMELLY, IF IT'S
STALE I'VE WALKED THROUGH SO
MANY OF THESE TYPE OF BUILDINGS
AND JUST BEEN TURNED OFF BY THE
AIR QUALITY.
SO PART OF WHAT WE'RE DOING IS
WE'RE GOING TO INSTALL IRV'S
WHICH ARE THE ENERGY
RECOVERY VENTILATOR'S.
THIS ADDS TO THE SUSTAINABILITY
OF IT BUT IT ALSO PROMOTES A
VERY, VERY HIGH AMOUNT OF AIR
TURNOVER.
SO YOU'RE GETTING FRESH AIR
CONDITIONED TO THE TEMPERATURE
OF THE AMBIENT AIR INSIDE THE
UNIT THROUGH THE R.V. UNIT
AND
SO YOU'RE RECAPTURING BASICALLY
SOME THAT HEAT OR COOLING AND
MOISTURE CONTROL THAT THAT
WOULD OTHERWISE BE LOST WHEN
YOU TRY AND HAVE A TURNOVER SO
WE CAN BUILD A TYPE BUILDING
ENVELOPE ONLY BECAUSE WE'RE
GOING TO PUT IRV'S IN AND
THAT'S REQUIRED UNDER THE
ENERGY STAR STANDARD AGAIN, YOU
KNOW MORE ABOUT THIS STUFF THAN
THE AVERAGE PERSON I THINK
STANDS IN YOUR SHOES WHICH I
APPRECIATE LIKE LEGITIMATELY
AND I'M RECOGNIZING THAT
THERE'S THERE'S TWO ACTIONS AND
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
I HOPE THAT ALL OF THE NUMBERS
WORK OUT.
I THINK THAT IN TERMS OF BEING
ABLE TO MAKE THIS AS
SUSTAINABLE BY THINKING ABOUT
ENERGY EFFICIENCY FIRST
THINKING ABOUT THE AIR QUALITY
AND THEN THINKING ABOUT HOW YOU
CAN HEAT IT AND PROVIDE
ESSENTIAL SAFETY, I THINK THAT
THAT'S IMPORTANT.
I KNOW YOU STILL HAVE TO DO
YOUR ANALYSIS AND I'M HEARING
THAT IT'S NOT IN WRITING.
AND SO NOW MY DECISION I HAVE
TO GRAPPLE WITH MYSELF BUT THAT
IS FOR ME.
>> I WENT TO U OF M FOR SEVEN
YEARS.
I'M A LITTLE GEEKY MAYBE ABOUT
THIS KIND OF STUFF BUT I LIKE
THIS STUFF WE CAN NERD OUT ON
IT TOTALLY OK WE DON'T LEAVE.
OH I HAVE A COUPLE OF QUESTIONS
BUT JUST BEFORE WE CLOSE TO MY
ANSWER YEAH.
I WAS GOING TO ASK YOU BECAUSE
YOU MENTIONED TYPE BUILDING
ENVELOPE ABOUT ERBY SO THANK
YOU FOR ANSWERING THAT QUESTION
BEFORE I HAD TO ASK EVERY UNIT
THEN HAVE AN RV JUST OK PERFECT
FIRST FLOOR RESIDENCE ON OPRAH
TO ACTIVATE.
I LIKE THAT BUT ARE THEY GOING
TO HAVE ACCESS TO THE BACK
OF WHAT WE HAD PLANNED PLANT
YOU MEAN SO THEY HAVE A DOOR TO
WALK.
YEAH WE HAVEN'T PLANNED THAT.
>> IS THAT A POSSIBILITY MAYBE
THAT WOULD HELP ACTIVATE IT
MORE THAN ANYTHING I THINK IF
PEOPLE KIND OF COME AND GO TAKE
LOOK AT IT WE HEAR A LOT ABOUT
OUT OF TOWN DEVELOPERS COMING
IN TO ANN ARBOR TO MAKE A LOT
OF MONEY OFF OF PROJECTS THAT
WE ALLOW THEM TO BUILD AND YOU
SEEM TO BE VERY, VERY LOCAL AND
I APPRECIATE JUST APPRECIATE
YOU COMING WITH THIS VERY
THOUGHTFUL PROJECT.
I THINK IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
>> I LIKE THAT IT'S MADE
DENSITY.
IT HAS A RANGE OF UNIT TYPES.
I DO WISH THERE WERE MORE THREE
BEDROOMS BECAUSE I FEEL LIKE
THOSE ARE MORE FAMILIES SIZED
ALSO IT'S FEWER KITCHENS YOU'D
HAVE TO GO WITH WHICH IS
CHEAPER AND IT'S NOT EVERYTHING
WE'RE SEEING.
A LOT OF WHAT WE'RE SEEING IS
UNIVERSITY ORIENTED.
THIS FEELS TO ME LIKE THIS
COULD BE MORE FOR YOUNG
PROFESSIONALS, YOUNG FAMILIES
ETC. SO THANK YOU.
I I ALSO LIKE THE QUESTION I
BELIEVE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING LIKE
YOU ACTUALLY SEEM VERY SINCERE
LIKE WE DO NOT TYPICALLY HEAR
THIS PETITIONERS SO I REALLY
HOPE THAT THIS WORKS OUT FOR ME
TOO.
>> ARE WE READY FOR A ROLL
CALL.
OK SO THOSE ARE MINOR.
WE'RE TAKING BOTH MOTIONS
TOGETHER RECOMMENDATION TO THE
CITY COUNCIL FOR REZONING AND
RECOMMENDATION FOR SITE PLAN
APPROVAL AND DEVELOPMENT
COMMISSIONER HEMMERS YES
COMMISSIONER LEAVE YES
COMMISSIONER.
YES COMMISSIONER MILLS NO.
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE YES.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES, COMMISSIONER.
YES.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GOOD LUCK AT CITY COUNCIL.
I'VE LOST MY PAGE RIGHT ON ITEM
NUMBER ELEVEN OF OUR BUSINESS.
I THINK THIS IS A GREAT TIME TO
TAKE A BREAK.
SO LET'S BREAK FOR TEN MINUTES.
>> OH, OK.
I DIDN'T GET TO
WE'RE BACK.
>> OK, SO WE'RE MOVING ON TO
ITEM ELEVEN OTHER BUSINESS AND
WE ARE GOING TO START WITH
AGENDA ITEM ELEVEN B THAT WE
MOVED UP TO ELEVEN RESPONSE TO
CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION STEP
PRESENTATION BY MR. LEARNER.
YEAH I WON'T SPEND TOO MUCH
TIME JUST TO RECAP YOU MIGHT
HAVE HEARD CITY COUNCIL PASSED
A RESOLUTION.
THEY MADE SOME ADJUSTMENTS TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION FOR YOU
TO CONSIDER.
SUBSEQUENT TO THAT STAFF HAD
ACTUALLY STARTED PUTTING
TOGETHER A MEMO OF RECOMMENDED
IDEAS SIMULTANEOUSLY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS HAD PUT
TOGETHER A MEMO AND AFTER THAT
TO BE SHARED.
SO WE CONSOLIDATED AND WHERE SO
IT REALLY STARTED WITH
COMMISSIONER ADAMS A SORT
FRAMEWORK JUST PUT INDICATIONS
WHERE WE ARE IN AGREEMENT FROM
A STAFF PERSPECTIVE WHERE WE
MIGHT SUGGEST SOME MODEST
CHANGES.
THERE ARE A COUPLE
OF REFERENCES WHERE IT WAS
SUGGESTED THAT THIS IS
SOMETHING OR STAFF TO DETERMINE
AND WE DIDN'T GO INTO A LOT
OF DETAIL NECESSARILY BUT WE
TRIED TO AT LEAST ARTICULATE
WHERE WE THINK THE BEST PLACE
WOULD BE TO ADDRESS THAT IN THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
>> SO YOU HAVE TWO ITEMS IN
YOUR PACKAGE.
BOTH ARE OUR I GUESS FILTERED
VERSION OF THAT AS WELL AS THE
ORIGINAL DOCUMENT AND I GUESS
I'LL JUST LEAVE IT AT THAT IF
HOWEVER THE COMMISSION WANTS TO
PROCEED IF YOU WANT TO TAKE IT
IN MASS OR IF YOU WANT TO TAKE
IT ONE BY ONE, I CAN TRY THE
ANY QUESTIONS YOU HAVE.
BUT AS A REMINDER STAFF
PERSPECTIVE IS JUST THAT IF YOU
SEE OTHER PLACES OR OTHER
APPROACHES WE'RE HAPPY TO DO
BETTER.
>> OH UM DO WE WANT TO START DO
I WANT TO DO THIS IS LIKE AN
OPEN MIC IF EVERYBODY CAN
KNOW
CAN THEY COME TO THANK YOU
EITHER WAY I'D LIKE BOTH
OF THEM MISSIONER COME TO NO
DISH I AM CONFUSED BY WHAT I
DID BUT THERE IS A CHANGE THAT
THERE ARE TWO CHANGES THAT I
WOULD LIKE TO ASK FOR AND I
THINK I'M GOING OFF OF THAT.
WELL NO THE I'M NOT SURE
WHETHER TO GO OFF THE ATOMS OR
THE STUFF ATOMS BUT SO STAFF IT
LOOKS LIKE AT ITS ATOMS TO
DELETE ATOMS EDITS FOR PAGE 117
AND 18.
YEAH, I THINK I'M ON TO PAGE
TWO OF THE STAFF ADAMS MEMO AND
WHAT I WANTED TO DO THEN I
WANTED TO MAKE THE SAME EDIT
FOR PAGE ONE FOURTEEN AND ONE
EIGHTEEN AND THE EDIT WOULD
WOULD BE SUCH THAT I'VE WRITTEN
IT IN TWO PLACES BECAUSE I
FORGOT MY FOLDER AND THEN IT
WAS BROUGHT TO ME BUT SO THE
EDIT FOR BOTH OF THEM WOULD
READ SO UNDER PREFERRED
BUILDING FORM COLUMN IN THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT ROW ADD
DUPLEXES AND TRY PLEXUS ARE
PERMITTED PRIMARY USES INSTEAD
OF PERMITTED BY WRITE THAT IS A
SUGGESTION FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY BECAUSE THE WORDS BY
WRITE SUGGEST IT.
IT IS AS IF ZONING IS THE ONLY
THING WE HAVE TO THINK ABOUT
BUT IN FACT THERE ARE OTHER
KINDS OF REQUIREMENTS THAT NEED
TO BE MET AND SO TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT ZONING IS NOT THE ONLY BOX
THAT YOU HAVE TO TAKE WE COULD
SAY THEY ARE PERMITTED PRIMARY
USES AND THEN WITH A REFORM TWO
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AS
APPROPRIATE TO ACHIEVE THIS
GOAL AND ADDITIONAL BUILDING
TYPES ALLOWED WE'RE CONSISTENT
WITH NEIGHBORHOOD FORM AND
SCALE SO SO I'M MAKING JUST A
TWEAK TO THE LANGUAGE OF BY
RIGHTS SO I'M SUBSTITUTING
INSTEAD OF BY WRITE ARE
PERMITTED PRIMARY USES AND THEN
I'M ADDING WITH REFORM AND THIS
MAY NOT BE THE BEST THING YOU
MAY NOT BE CLEAR BUT WHAT I AM
TRYING TO BE CLEAR ABOUT HERE
IS THAT CITY COUNCIL FULLY
EXPECTS INVITE'S AND INTENDS
THAT DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS WILL
CHANGE.
IN OTHER WORDS THAT THAT
TRIPLEX WILL NOT BE LIMITED TO
THE EXISTING BUILDING ENVELOPE
AND THEY SO WE WANT TO MAKE IT
CLEAR THAT THAT WILL BE
UNDERSTAND THAT IF YOU ONLY
CHANGE ZONING AND YOU DO NOT
REFORM DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS,
YOU MAY IN FACT IN THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PLAN
PRECLUDE THE DENSITY THAT YOU
ARE TRYING TO PERMIT.
AND SO IF MY LANGUAGE IS STILL
NOT GOOD BUT WHAT I'M REACTING
TO IS THAT I'M NOT SURE THAT
PEOPLE UNDERSTAND THAT
WIDESPREAD EASE OF DEVELOPMENT
MEANS TOTALLY MAKE IT POSSIBLE
TO HAVE DRY PLEXUS.
>> YOU KNOW, IT REALLY MEANS
REFORM TO DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
AND I FEEL LIKE NOW I'M NOT
COHERENT.
>> IT'S ALL OK.
SO THAT SENTENCE I ADMIT AND
I'M FINE WITH EDITS, I'M FINE
WITH CHANGES.
I JUST WANTED YOU TO UNDERSTAND
WHAT I WAS TRYING TO DO.
SO DUPLEX IN TRIPLEX IS OUR
PERMITTED PRIMARY USES WITH
REFORM TO DIMENSION STANDARDS
AS APPROPRIATE TO ACHIEVE THIS
GOAL AND I'M NOT SURE IF
ACHIEVE THIS GOAL IS THE RIGHT
THING AND ADDITIONAL BUILDING
TYPES ALLOWED WE'RE CONSISTENT
WITH NEIGHBORHOOD FORM AND
SCALE.
THAT WAS THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE
THAT ALSO COMMISSIONER ADAMS
KEPT.
SO I'M HAPPY FOR YOU EDIT MY
DRAFT AND IT WOULD BE THE EXACT
SAME CHANGE IN ONE EIGHTEEN.
>> IT'S JUST THE SAME TOKEN
THAT I'M GOING COGITATING.
>> YEAH OK.
I JUST WANT THAT TO BE SO CLEAR
AND I DID SAY THIS AT THE
COUNCIL TABLE I SAID WE EXPECT
TO REFORM TWO DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS OR ELSE THE
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ZONING
BETRAYS A PLAN AND THERE WERE
NO OBJECTIONS FROM MY
COLLEAGUES SO I MEAN IF IF THEY
HAVE OBJECTIONS THEY SHOULD
MAKE HIM KNOWN TO ME BUT NO ONE
HAS MADE THEM KNOWN TO ME.
AND SO I BELIEVE THAT I AM NOT
ONLY SPEAKING FOR MYSELF BUT
I'M SPEAKING AS I SPOKE
PUBLICLY AT THE TABLE AND FOR
THE INTENT OF COUNCIL.
>> MY OWN IS IS IT TOO WONKY
EPICENTERS?
NOTHING'S TOO WONKY.
WELL YOU CAN EDIT FOR YEAH.
>> ANY EDIT YOU'RE GOING TO
MAKE IS NOT TO MESS IT.
IS THERE A WAY TO TO KEEP THIS
SENTIMENT BUT MAKE IT MORE
ACCESSIBLE LANGUAGE FOR PEOPLE
WHO DO NOT UNDERSTAND
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
YOU WANT ME TO DO THAT ON THE
SPOT.
NO OK YES OK I CAN DO THAT.
SO JUST JUST TO REITERATE THE
INTENTION HERE IS TO MAKE IT
CLEAR THAT DUPLEXES AND HYFLUX
WILL BE PERMITTED PRIMARY USES
.
>> YOUR GOAL HERE IS IN AND I
APPRECIATE THAT WE WE TALK
ABOUT BY RIGHT A LOT.
IT'S A CLUMSY IT'S A CLUMSY
SHORTHAND FOR IF YOU MEET THE
ZONING IT GETS APPROVED BUT IT
DOESN'T MEAN THAT IT'S NOT
WITHOUT REQUIREMENTS.
AND SO I GET THAT AND THEN THE
INTENTION FOR THE LANGUAGE ON
BOTH THE ONE FOURTEEN AND ONE
EIGHTEEN IS AND LOOK AT THE
DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS SO THAT
THAT IS A NOT A JUST KIND
OF CURSORY OR SIGNALING KIND
OF REZONING CHANGE.
WE HAD TO ACTUALLY MAKE CHANGES
TO THE TO THE DIMENSIONAL
REQUIREMENTS SO THAT IT IS
PRACTICAL AND VIABLE TO REALIZE
THOSE TYPES OF DEVELOPMENTS AND
THOSE AREAS.
>> THAT'S WHAT I MEAN AND I
READ I READ PHRASED I MEAN I'VE
SEEN DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS BUT
I ALSO READ IT, YOU KNOW, IN A
CRITIQUE OF MINNEAPOLIS AND
THEY USE THAT LANGUAGE.
SO I TOOK IT FROM THERE BUT I
GET IT ANYBODY CAN MAKE
ANYTHING PLAINER BUT IT REALLY
STRUCK ME THAT IT NEEDED TO BE
PLAIN AND OF COURSE IF WE ALL
IF MANY PEOPLE YOU KNOW, IF IF
A DIFFERENT COUNCIL WERE TO SIT
IN THESE SEATS WHEN THE
IMPLEMENTATION HAPPENS, THEY
MAY DISREGARD THAT ASPECT
OF THE PLAN.
BUT I FEEL LIKE IT'S AN
IMPORTANT THING TO AT LEAST
HAVE THEIR IT REALLY HAS TO BE
THERE.
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW HOW BOUND
YOU KNOW, I KNOW PLANS GET TO
SIT ON SHELVES THAT'S YOU KNOW,
WE'RE KIND OF WE HAVE A LOT
OF PLANS THAT SAT ON SHELVES
WE'RE PUTTING IN THIS PLAN.
SO I UNDERSTAND THE PLANS NOT
INVIABLE BUT OR INVIOLABLE BUT
I REALLY FELT THAT THE
PRINCIPLE SHOULD BE THERE I AM
SUNTANNING JUST SUPPORT ACROSS
THE COMMISSION FOR THOSE
CHANGES WOULD BE GOOD.
WOULD YOU MIND IF I SAID THE
ONE I THOUGHT THE STEP EDITS
WERE GREAT EXCEPT FOR THE THE
CHANGES TO GETTING MY MEMO
LABELED COUNSEL REQUEST TIME AT
THERE I THINK I WOULD MAY ASK
THAT WE WOULD TAKE SOME KIND
OF STRAW POLL OR VOTE TO MOVE
FORWARD.
MY ORIGINAL RECOMMENDED
LANGUAGE.
SO THE COUNCIL REQUEST THERE
WAS AN ID OF EXISTING LAWS,
RULES AND REGULATIONS THAT WILL
PREVENT A TRANSITION CATEGORY
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USES FROM
CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE WITH
RESPECT TO ADJACENT HOUSING
WHETHER SUCH HOUSING IS IN
TRANSITION OR RESIDENTIAL
CATEGORY.
SO TO EXECUTE THIS MY NORMAL
RECOMMENDED CHANGING INDUSTRIAL
IN TRANSITION TO LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL WHICH IS THE WORDING
USED IN THE COUNCIL RESOLUTION
AND WAS THE ORIGINAL WORDING
USED IN THE FIRST DRAFT OF THE
PLAN IN BOTH FLUX AND
TRANSITION WAS CHANGED AT SOME
POINT TO INDUSTRIAL WITHOUT THE
MODIFY OF LIGHT AND WE HAD
BEGUN TO DISCUSS BRIEFLY AT ONE
OF THE LAST MEETINGS IN JULY
THE NEED TO CHANGE IT BACK TO
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL BEFORE THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
SO STAFF MEMO SUGGESTS THAT I
THINK WE HAVE TO GO BACK TO THE
INDUSTRIAL RECOMMENDATION
INSTEAD OF MOVING TO LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL BECAUSE THE CITY
NEEDS TO MAINTAIN A WIDE
VARIETY OF USES AND THEN IT
MAKES CHANGES TO MY SUGGESTED
LANGUAGE FORM AND CITE
CONSIDERATIONS THAT CHANGE THE
EMPHASIS FROM PROTECTING
RESIDENTS FROM NUISANCES TO
ALLOWING IN A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES.
SO GOING BACK TO AND I
MENTIONED THIS TO A COUPLE
FOLKS TO BREAK YOU KNOW, THE
WHOLE POINT OF MY RESOLUTION
WAS TO REALLY TO TRY TO EXECUTE
THE COUNCIL DIRECTION, YOU
KNOW, STRAIGHT WITHOUT ANY
ENGLISH ON THE BALL.
SO THAT WAS THE DRAFTING TASK
THAT I SET OUT TO DO THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
>> I THINK SPECIFICALLY USES
THE PHRASE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND
I DON'T THINK THAT'S AN
ACCIDENT BECAUSE THE
RECOMMENDATION THEN PIVOTS TO
FOCUS ON PROVIDING ASSURANCES
TO RESIDENTS NUISANCES WITH
RESPECT TO NEARBY HOUSING WILL
BE ABATED AND THEN FURTHER
REQUEST THE IDENTIFICATION
OF THE TOOLS THAT WILL BE USED
TO DO IT WHICH IS FULLY
CONSISTENT OF WITH THE CHOICE
OF USING LIGHT TO MODIFY
INDUSTRIAL.
>> I THINK THAT GOING BACK TO
REGULAR SORT OF INDUSTRIAL
ABOUT TO MODIFY OR SUGGEST
HEAVIER OR NOXIOUS USES AND I
THINK THAT'S THE OPPOSITE
DIRECTION THAT WE WANT TO GO IN
AND I THINK I HAVE THE SAME
CONCERNS ABOUT THE EDITS TO THE
LANGUAGE AND PERFORMANCE SITE
WHICH I INTENDED TO SIGNAL THAT
WE WOULD THAT THE UK'S NUISANCE
USE AND PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
WOULD BE REVIEWED TO PREVENT
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USERS FROM
CREATING NEW SYSTEMS NUISANCES
TO NEARBY RESIDENTIAL.
I THINK THE STAFF AT ITS TAC
AND IS IN A DIFFERENT DIRECTION
WHICH IS THAT THE RULES SHOULD
MAYBE BE REVIEWED TO PERMIT OR
ALLOW IN A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES AND I THINK
THAT'S MOVING AWAY FROM WHAT I
READ TO BE THE COUNCIL
DIRECTION BEYOND JUST SORT
OF STICKING TO WHAT THE COUNCIL
DIRECTIVE
WAS.
I THINK THE USE OF LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL IN TRANSITION SEEMS
LIKE THE RIGHT POLICY CHOICE.
IT WAS THE POLICY CHOICE THAT
THE FIRST DRAFT MADE IN
TRANSITION AND FLAKS I DON'T
RECALL DIRECTING A CHANGE FROM
THAT ORIGINAL RECOMMENDATION
AND I SUPPORTED IT AT THAT TIME
WHEN WE ELIMINATED FLAXTON
COLLAPSED IT INTO TRANSITION.
IT DOESN'T SEEM TO ME LIKE THAT
CHOICE SHOULD HAVE FORCED ON US
ANY CHANGE TO WHAT WE WERE
RECOMMENDING IN TERMS OF WHAT
TYPES OF INDUSTRIAL WOULD BE
APPROPRIATE INSIDE CITY LIMITS.
I THE MEMO SEEMS TO SUGGEST
THERE MIGHT BE LEGAL REASONS
WHY WE NEED TO WHY WE NEED TO
SAY INDUSTRIAL NOT LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL.
I THINK THOSE CONCERNS WHICH I
THINK TIE INTO MCO ONE TWENTY
FIVE THREE TO SEVEN WHICH IS
ALL ABOUT YOU CAN'T PROHIBIT
USES THAT NEED IN CITY LIMITS
UNLESS YOU KNOW ABOUT THAT.
I'M HAVING A FUNNY I THINK THAT
REALLY NEEDS TO BE WORKED OUT
ON THE ZONING PROCESS.
I THINK THE RIGHT POLICY CHOICE
HERE GIVEN THE FACT THAT ALL
OF THE AREAS WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT ARE IMMEDIATELY ADJACENT
TO OR AT LEAST NEAR ACTIVE
HOUSING PARKLAND GOLF COURSES,
DAYCARES AND OTHER KINDS
OF SENSITIVE USES, WE SHOULD BE
MAKING A POLICY RECOMMENDATION
THAT THESE AND ANY INDUSTRIAL
USES THAT WE ALLOW IN HAVE TO
BE, YOU KNOW, LIGHT THEY HAVE
TO BE WHICH COMMUNICATES TO A
LAYPERSON SAFE.
THERE MIGHT BE A DIFFERENT
TECHNICAL DEFINITION OF IT BUT
I THINK THE RIGHT SIGNAL TO THE
COMMUNITY AND TO THE PEOPLE WHO
LIVE AROUND THESE AREAS IS THAT
THE USES IN HERE SHOULD BE
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL WHICH AGAIN IS
CONSISTENT WITH OUR ORIGINAL
STARTING POINT.
>> THAT IS WHERE I'LL STOP
YAKKING.
>> I APPRECIATE CLARIFICATION'S
I MEAN THAT'S GREAT AND I'M SO
I'M WONDERING WHAT FOR STAFF IS
AT STAKE IN THE DISTINCTION
BETWEEN LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND
INDUSTRIAL?
>> I THINK MR ADAMS, I AM
WORRIED THAT TRANSITION
DISTRICTS ARE TRANSITIONING TO
HUB ARE THE ONLY PLACES WHERE
WE ARE GOING TO PROVIDE A WIDE
VARIETY OF BUSINESS USES AND
BECAUSE OF THE STATUTE DOES
REQUIRE US TO PROVIDE USES
WHETHER THEY ARE LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY INDUSTRIAL OR
OTHER.
WE CANNOT SIMPLY JUST CHOOSE
NOT TO ACCOMMODATE THEM IN THE
CITY.
AND SO THE THE INTENTION HERE
WAS TO SAY THE SAME POTENTIAL
CONFLICTS THAT MIGHT APPLY
BETWEEN THE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
USE AND RESIDENTIAL USE MIGHT
APPLY TO ANY INDUSTRIAL USE AND
RESIDENTIAL USES OR FOR THAT
MATTER HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USES TO
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL HOWEVER YOU
WANT TO CATEGORIZE THAT.
BUT MY REASON FOR THESE PEOPLE
IS IS THAT BY I THINK IT CAN
CREATE PERCEPTION BY LABELING
IT AS LIGHT INDUSTRIAL WE HAVE
THE ABILITY TO SAY NO AND A
MORE FINITE WAY TO OTHER USES
THAT DON'T FIT INTO THAT
CATEGORY THAT I DON'T KNOW BUT
WE ALL HAVE THAT ABILITY
ULTIMATELY.
>> OK, SO LET ME JUST MAKE SURE
THAT I UNDERSTOOD SO WHAT
YOU'RE SAYING IS THAT THE
DISTINCTION BETWEEN LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL AND INDUSTRIAL FROM
A FROM A LAND USE PERSPECTIVE
DOESN'T ACTUALLY HAVE A LOT
OF LEGAL PURCHASE?
I WOULD SAY YES.
I WOULD SAY WE HAVE TO WE HAVE
TO ACCOMMODATE USES WHICH
THERE'S A DEMONSTRATED NEED FOR
AND I DON'T WANT TO SAY THAT
ARE PERMITTED USE TABLE RIGHT
NOW AS AN ACCURATE REFLECTION
OF THAT I I BET IT'S NOT BUT
THAT DOESN'T MEAN IT WAS HOW I
INTERPRET THAT IS THAT THAT
DOES NOT MEAN THAT WE CAN
IDENTIFY A CATEGORY USES THAT
WE MIGHT THINK DON'T FALL INTO
LINE INDUSTRIAL AND THEREFORE
NOT FIND A REGULATORY FRAMEWORK
TO ACCOMMODATE THOSE IN THE
CITY.
>> AND SO THAT'S YOU KNOW,
THAT'S I'M THINKING ABOUT THIS
WHEN WE'RE THINKING ABOUT THE
TRANSITION OF DISTRICTS FOR
EXAMPLE, THE TRANSITION LAND
USE CATEGORY IS VERY BROAD AND
SO ON THE SHORT TERM THAT MIGHT
INCORPORATE EVERYTHING FROM OUR
M-2 DISTRICTS TO RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS.
RIGHT.
AND I THINK THAT'S THAT'S HOW
IT'S BEEN CRAFTED AND SO THAT
IS THE REASON FOR WHY I WOULD
ADVOCATE FOR THE EVOLUTION FROM
THE ORIGINAL DRAFT OF LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL TO A MORE BROAD
INDUSTRIAL AGAIN I'D STILL
THINK THE SAME PRINCIPLES
APPLY.
WE NEED TO FIND THE WAY FOR
WHATEVER THOSE USES ARE TO WORK
HARMONIOUSLY IN THAT DISTRICT.
BUT I THINK THAT LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL IS IT'S SIGNALING
PERHAPS A RESTRICTION THAT WE
MAY NOT BE ABLE TO LIVE WITH
FROM MY STANDPOINT WOULD
NUISANCE ORDINANCES COVER THE
APPROPRIATE AND SAFE
INTEGRATION COMPONENT LIKE I'M
JUST MAKING SURE THAT THAT
WOULD HAVE THE APPROPRIATE
LEVEL OF PROTECTIONS IN PLACE
RIGHT, BECAUSE I THINK THE AREA
THAT WE'RE IN SO WHAT I'M
HEARING FROM MR WARNER IS THAT
THE WIDE VARIETY OF BUSINESSES
AND ALSO UNILATERALLY STATING
WHAT THERE'S ACTUALLY AN ENTIRE
SUBSET OF USERS THAT ARE NOT
PERMITTED IN THE CITY PERIOD IS
NOT SOMETHING WE CAN DO IF
THERE'S A MARKET A DEMONSTRATED
MARKET NEED FOR IT THEN I KNOW
YOU CANNOT DO THAT NOW AGAIN,
THIS IS A POLICY DOCUMENT AND I
DON'T WANT TO SAY THAT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAS TO
ANSWER DOESN'T HAVE TO PROVIDE
THE LEGAL FRAMEWORK FOR
EVERYTHING.
SURE.
BUT I DO THINK IT'S IMPORTANT
FOR US TO LIKE I THINK ANOTHER
WAY TO THINK ABOUT THIS IS
WHERE WOULD NON LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL USERS GO?
WHERE WOULD HEAVY INDUSTRIAL
USES GO ACCORDING TO OUR PLAN
IF SOMEBODY COMES TO YOU AND
SAYS HEY, THERE'S A
DEMONSTRATED NEED FOR THIS AND
BIOL FROM FOR WHATEVER PURPOSES
IT DOESN'T FALL ON THAT LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL AT YOUR CONCLUSION
OR THE CITY COUNCIL'S
CONCLUSION, WHAT GUIDANCE DO
YOU WANT IN THIS DOCUMENT AS TO
WHERE IT'S APPROPRIATE IN THE
CITY?
>> I SURE LIKE SO FOR EXAMPLE
SOMEBODY SAYS I WANT TO CREATE
AN INDUSTRIAL WATER FILTER OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
OK, I'VE HAD AN INNOVATION AND
I WANT TO MANUFACTURE IT BUT
NOW I CAN'T BE GIVEN THAT OR AT
LEAST THIS AT LEAST QUASI
BINDING KIND OF LIKE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN IS INTENDING
TO BE LOOKING TO UNDERSTAND
YOUR POSITION.
MR. ADAMS IS WHAT YOU ARE
LOOKING AT.
MY READ OF IT IS THAT WE'RE
TRYING TO MAKE THIS A LITTLE
BIT MORE PALATABLE.
RIGHT.
AS OPPOSED TO LEAVING IT TO A
WIDE VARIETY OF USES.
>> APPROPRIATE AND SAFE
INTEGRATION I THINK IS A VERY
KIND OF NICE WAY OF SAYING LIKE
HEY LOOK, I WANT TO BE AMICABLE
WITH THE TYPE OF LIKE WE DON'T
WANT TRANSITION TO BE SO
CONTROVERSIAL IS THAT THAT WAS
KIND OF MY READ ON IT.
WELL, YEAH.
I MEAN I THINK AGAIN GOING BACK
TO THE ORIGIN STORY OF THIS,
RIGHT.
SO WE NEVER SAID HEAVY
INDUSTRIAL ANYWHERE.
WE NEVER SAID IN THE ORIGINAL
DRAFT IT DIDN'T SAY INDUSTRIAL
HERE AND THEN WE GOT RID OF AND
SO NOW IT HAS TO GO SOMEWHERE
WE SAID LIGHT AND LIGHT AND
WHEN WE COLLAPSED FLECK'S IN
TRANSITION IT BECAME INDUSTRIAL
AND LIGHT GOT FELL AWAY AND
AGAIN GOING BACK TO WHAT WE'RE
DOING I THINK THIS IS A THIS IS
A POLICY DOCUMENT.
IT'S A GUIDANCE DOCUMENT AND
THE THE THE DETAILS AROUND WHAT
USE IS LEGALLY HAVE TO BE
PERMITTED IN ORDER TO COMPLY
WITH STATE LAW WITHIN CITY
LIMITS.
THAT'S SOMETHING THAT I THINK
THE CITY ATTORNEY HAS TO WORK
OUT WHEN ZONING WHEN WE'RE
GOING THROUGH THE FINE LIKE THE
FINE DETAIL WORK OF ZONING,
WHAT INDUSTRIAL USES WILL BE
SHOULD BE COMPATIBLE AND HAVE A
DEMONSTRATED NEED WITHIN THE
CITY SUCH THAT WE NEED TO ALLOW
THEM IN.
THAT'S REALLY CHALLENGING TO
GRAPPLE WITH AND I DON'T THINK
WE NEED TO GRAPPLE WITH THE
POLICY CHOICE THAT WE'RE MAKING
IS THE ONE THAT THE FIRST DRAFT
MADE WHICH WAS THE CORRECT ONE
WHICH IS TO SIGNAL TO THE
COMMUNITY THAT INDUSTRIAL USES
ARE PERMITTED IN THESE AREAS
PROVIDED THAT THEY ARE LIGHT,
THEY'RE SAFE, THEY'RE
APPROPRIATE BECAUSE NONE OF THE
AREAS WE'RE TALKING ABOUT ARE
IN MY OPINION AS A NON PLANNER
BUT AS SOMEBODY WHO LIVES HERE
AND LIVES NEAR ONE OF THESE
AREAS.
NONE OF THESE AREAS ARE THAT
SEPARATE FROM RESIDENTIAL OR
PARKLAND OR GREEN SPACE SUCH
THAT WE SHOULD BE ALLOWING
HEAVY INDUSTRIAL OR NOXIOUS
USES INTO THEM.
AND I THINK THAT'S THE WRONG
MESSAGE TO SEND TO THE
COMMUNITY, WHICH IS WHY I THINK
THE ORIGINAL LANGUAGE NEEDS TO
STAND.
GOT IT.
AND YOU THINK THAT THERE'S
INSUFFICIENCY IN NUISANCE
ORDINANCES THAT THAT YOU WANT
TO BUFFER THAT WITH?
THAT WAS THE COUNCIL THAT WAS
THE COUNCIL DIRECTION.
SO THE COUNCIL DIRECTION SAID
YOU NEED TO SPECIFY THE THINGS
YOU'RE GOING TO GIVE PEOPLE
COMFORT THAT YOU'RE GOING TO BE
APPROPRIATELY PROTECTING THE
PUBLIC BY SOME TYPE OF LOOK AT
THESE TOOLS RIGHT NOW THE
IDENTIFICATION OF THE TOOLS
YOU'RE GOING TO USE TO
INTEGRATE THESE THINGS INTO THE
COMMUNITY.
>> SO IT SEEMS TO ME LIKE
THERE'S TWO QUESTIONS DO YOU
WANT TO DO IT NOW?
>> YOU'RE OK.
BUT SHE WAS YEAH.
WELL SO I THINK I I THINK WHAT
WILL HELP ME ACTUALLY A LITTLE
BIT IS TO UNDERSTAND WHAT
COUNCILOR REQUESTS WAS
INTENDING BECAUSE I HEAR TWO
DIFFERENT THINGS I AM NOT SURE
IF WHAT COUNCIL REQUESTS TEN
WAS INTENDING IS THAT WE
PROTECT ALL OF THE RESIDENTIAL
FROM ANY OF LOUDER SMELLIER
THINGS THAT MIGHT COME WITH
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL EVEN LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL OR IF COUNCIL
REQUESTS TEN WAS REQUESTING
THAT WE MAKE SURE THAT LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL CAN STILL OPERATE
EVEN KNOWING THAT IT MAY BE
LOUDER SMELLIER THAN ANONYMOUS
THEN THE NON LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
THING I DON'T I DON'T KNOW IF
WE'RE TRYING TO PROTECT THE
RESIDENTIAL OR IF WE'RE TRYING
TO SAY WE WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT WE CAN STILL HAVE
INDUSTRIAL LIGHT INDUSTRIAL IN
THE CITY BECAUSE I THINK THAT
THAT ACTUALLY IS THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN NOT THE FIRST LANGUAGE
BUT LIGHT INDUSTRIAL VERSUS
INDUSTRIAL.
BUT THE SECOND THING IN MY MIND
IS LIKE WHICH ONE ARE YOU
TRYING TO PROTECT?
AND I DON'T UNDERSTAND THE
INTENTION OF A COUNCIL
RESOLUTION.
>> DOES THAT MAKE SENSE?
YES,
I I THINK IT IS I THINK
THAT THERE IS CONFUSION ABOUT
TRANSITION ABOUT THE ABOUT WHAT
IS ALLOWED IN TRANSITION BOTH
FROM THE STANDPOINT OF USE AND
HEIGHT AND PROXIMITY IS A
FACTOR IN ANSWERING THAT
QUESTION.
>> BUT IT ISN'T CLEAR TO
EVERYONE HOW TRANSITION HEIGHTS
TAPER TO FIT IN WITH
RESIDENTIAL AND IT'S ALSO NOT
CLEAR TO PEOPLE HOW THE
INTENSITY OF INDUSTRIAL USE
WOULD TAPER IN PROXIMITY TO
RESIDENTIAL AND SO I THINK THAT
THE LANGUAGE OF LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL WAS MEANT TO BE
REASSURING.
YOU WON'T GET HEAVY INDUSTRIAL,
YOU'LL GET LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
WELL I'M HEARING FROM MR
LEONARD THAT THAT MAY OR MAY
NOT BE TRUE AND THAT ALSO
DEPENDS ON WHERE IN TRANSITION
BECAUSE IN SOME PARTS
OF TRANSITION WHICH ABOUT HUB
AND ARE ON THE PERIPHERY OF THE
CITY THAT'S WHAT IT MIGHT BE IN
TRANSITION.
>> AND SO THIS IS KIND OF AN
ISSUE WITH THE TRANSITION ZONE
THAT WE YOU KNOW AND THEN THERE
AND I THINK THE THE COUNCIL IS
CALLING AGAIN AS WE DID IN THE
YOU KNOW, JUST IN AN
ILLUSTRATIVE WAY TELL US WHAT
FORM BASED STANDARDS OR
REGULATIONS MEAN BECAUSE PEOPLE
LIKE THEY DON'T DIMENSIONAL
STANDARDS THEY REALLY DON'T
KNOW FROM FORUM BASED SO SO
THAT'S WHY WE WANTED THE
ILLUSTRATIVE LANGUAGE AND I
KNOW SOME OF THE THINGS THAT WE
ASKED HAVE PUT IN ILLUSTRATIVE
LANGUAGE ACTUALLY REALLY ARE
NOT FOREIGN BASED.
>> SO THAT IS AN UNFORTUNATE
THING.
THIS IS THE WAY IT WORKS.
WE'RE DOING A YOU KNOW, A
DISCUSSION WITH THE PUBLIC, YOU
KNOW, AND SO I THINK THERE IS A
CALL TO SAY WHAT ARE THE
NUISANCE STANDARDS AND HOW CAN
THEY HELP BUFFER A ESSENTIALLY,
YOU KNOW, BUFFER OR HARMONIZE
BECAUSE WE WANT MIXED USE.
WE WANT SERVICES IN
NEIGHBORHOODS PROBABLY WE DON'T
WANT YOUR SARACENO.
RIGHT.
SO IT I BELIEVE THAT ALL
OF THIS IS IN THE MIX AND IT IS
SIMPLY A IT IS AN ISSUE THAT
PEOPLE WANT SPECIFICITY.
THEY WANT MORE SPECIFICITY THAN
WE WANT TO GIVE THEM AND
THEY'RE YOU KNOW, WE HEARD
EIGHT STORIES EQUATED WITH
TRANSITION AND WE HEARD THREE
STORIES EQUATED WITH TRANSITION
AND THE DISCUSSION TONIGHT AND
I BELIEVE THAT BOTH OF THOSE
THINGS ARE TRUE BUT IT DEPENDS
ON WHETHER YOU ARE IMAGINING
THE WORST THING THAT COULD
HAPPEN TO YOU OR YOU ARE
RECOGNIZING WHAT THE PLAN IS
TRYING TO SAY.
AND I THOUGHT THAT MEDLOW PUT
IT REALLY WELL WHEN THEY WERE
EXPLAINING THAT PEOPLE ARE
WANTING TO PUT HARD AND FAST
BARRIERS AROUND THESE THINGS
AND THE WAY OUR PLAN IS WORKING
BECAUSE IT'S TRYING TO SIMPLIFY
THE CATEGORIES IS THAT THINGS
ARE ON A CONTINUUM AND SO
THERE'S A CONTINUUM OF RIGHT IN
TRANSITION AND A CONTINUUM
OF INTENSITY OF OF WHATEVER
INDUSTRIAL WHATEVER THAT MEANS
INDUSTRIAL USE.
YEAH.
SO I THINK WHAT'S INTERESTING
IS THAT IF YOU LOOK AT OUR
CURRENT LAND USE
CLASSIFICATIONS, WE LOOK AT
WHERE THE WORD TRANSITION IS
USED IS I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY
AN OFFICE OFFICE IS CONSIDERED
THE TRANSITION DISTRICT AND
PARKING IS A BUFFER LIKE I
THINK THAT LITERAL I THINK
THAT'S WHAT IT SAYS IN OUR
STANDARDS DOCUMENT THAT YOU'VE
GOT INDUSTRIAL OR FLEX LIGHT
AND ONE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL YOU
GOT OFFICES OF TRANSITION AND
THEN YOU GOT RISING AND SO
ACTUALLY OFFICE DOESN'T ALLOW
FOR EXAMPLE LIKE EVEN I THINK
RETAIL I REMEMBER I WAS TRYING
TO DO A JEWELER FOR EXAMPLE IN
ONE OF THE OFFICE BUILDINGS AND
THEY WERE LIKE NO, WE DON'T
WANT THAT MANY TRIPS.
RIGHT.
WHICH IS AN INTERESTING CONCEPT
AGAIN.
SO I THINK THE CHALLENGE WE'RE
HAVING RIGHT NOW FROM MY
PERSPECTIVE IS THAT IT'S A
COLLAPSING OF THE CATEGORIES
OF WHAT TRANSITION EXACTLY.
THE CLARIFICATION I COULD USE
IS THIS NUMBER TEN.
I THINK IT COMES BACK TO YOUR
POINT CONDITIONALS WHICH WAS
THE IDENTIFICATION OF EXISTING
RULE LAWS, RULES, REGULATIONS
THAT PREVENTS TRANSITION
CATEGORY LIGHT INDUSTRIAL USERS
FROM CONSTITUTING A NUISANCE
WHEN IT'S ADJACENT TO HOUSING.
SO AND AND JUST THE INTENT
OF COUNCIL BEHIND IT AND THAT
DIRECTIVE THAT MEANS THAT AFTER
THIS PARTICULAR DISCUSSION I
MEAN I'M INCLINED TO TRY TO
MAKE THIS AS SAFE AND
ACCESSIBLE OR AN AMICABLE FROM
THE LANGUAGE AS POSSIBLE.
THAT BEING SAID, I ALSO THINK
THE NUISANCE STANDARDS ARE
SUFFICIENT AND IF IF IT'S
EMANATING BEYOND PROPERTY LINE
BUT FROM THE STANDPOINT OF JUST
MAKING CLEAR WHAT WE INTEND TO
RELEASE FROM THE POLICY
DOCUMENT TO SAY SOMETHING OF A
HYBRID OF SAFE INTEGRATION OF A
WIDE VARIETY OF BUSINESSES,
SOMETHING THAT KIND OF MEETS TO
HAVE A WAY WHERE WE DO HAVE THE
WORD SAFETY BECAUSE WE'VE GOT A
SAFETY GENERAL WELFARE.
THAT'S WHAT ACTUALLY PROFESSOR
NORTON DRILLED INTO ME FROM DAY
ONE.
I THINK A LOT OF SAFETY JOLLOF
THERE SO I DON'T MIND THE
CONCEPT TRIED TO HYBRIDIZE KIND
OF THE LAST PARAGRAPH
OF BASICALLY FORMS LIKE
CONSIDERATION UDC NUISANCE
PERMITTED USES NUISANCE
ORDINANCES PERMITTED USES
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS SHOULD BE
REVIEWED AND REVISED AS
APPROPRIATE TO PERMIT THE
APPROPRIATE AND SAFE
INTEGRATION OF A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES IN TIME.
YEAH THAT'S WHAT WE'RE DO.
THAT'S FINE.
I JUST DIDN'T WANT TO LOSE THE
CONCEPT OF SAFETY, SAFETY AND
I'M SERVICES TO THE WAY YOU
JUST PROPOSED THE PERMITTED
USES PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
SHOULD BE REVIEWED AND REVISED
IS APPROPRIATE TO PERMIT THE
APPROPRIATE AND SAFE
INTEGRATION OF A WIDE VARIETY
BUSINESSES INTO TRANSITION
DISTRICTS.
>> SO IT'S KIND OF TAKING A
LITTLE BIT OF BOTH RIGHT IN MY
MIND IT SAYS WE WANT THE
BUSINESSES, WE WANT BUSINESSES
TO BE ABLE TO DO THINGS BUT WE
WANT IT TO BE SAFE LIKE AND AND
SO IT STILL DOESN'T 100 PERCENT
HELP ME UNDERSTAND WHICH ONE
WE'RE TRYING TO MAKE.
BUT IT DOESN'T JUST SAY WE ONLY
CARE ABOUT THINGS BEING QUIET
LIKE THAT IS OUR NUMBER ONE
PRIORITY OR LIKE PROTECTING
RESIDENTIAL IS OUR NUMBER ONE
PRIORITY.
I'M HEARING THAT FROM THAT FOR
ME SUGGESTS LIKE WE WANT THIS
WIDE VARIETY LOOK THAT'S
IMPORTANT IN THESE DISTRICTS
THAT THERE'S A WIDE VARIETY
OF USES AND I THINK THAT IT'S
NOT I THINK THAT IT'S MEETING
THE INTENT OF NUMBER 10 AND
MAYBE COME MEMBER CAN CAN TELL
US IF SHE AGREES WITHOUT
PROVIDING A LAUNDRY LIST
OF EXISTING LAWS RULES,
REGULATIONS MAKE SURE MAKE SOME
OBSERVATIONS.
OK, SO LET ME START OUT BY
SAYING I'M NOT THE CITY'S LEGAL
COUNSEL AND I TOTALLY
UNDERSTAND BUT I THINK MANAGER
ELEANOR IS REFERRING TO THE
EXCLUSIONARY ZONING PROVISION
OF THE MICHIGAN ON ENABLING ACT
WHICH SAYS YOU CAN'T EXCLUDE
USE IF THERE'S A DEMONSTRATED
NEED FOR IT AND MY
UNDERSTANDING OF THE HISTORY
OF THAT WAS LARGELY AIMED AT
COMMUNITIES THAT WERE VERY
EFFECTIVELY ZONING OUT MOBILE
HOME PARKS AND AND THAT WAS THE
RESPONSE TO THAT IT ALL HINGES
ON IS DEMONSTRATED NEED FOR
USE.
SO WE KIND OF BECAUSE OF THE
WAY THIS IS ALL UNFOLDED, IF
YOU LOOK AT THE TEXT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN RIGHT NOW
I'M LOOKING AT PAGE ONE HUFFIN
IT SUGGESTS THAT HUB DISTRICTS
WOULD HAVE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
ACTIVITIES AND TRANSITION
DISTRICTS WOULD HAVE INDUSTRIAL
ACTIVITIES AND MOST PEOPLE
WOULD READ THAT TO MEAN THAT
INDUSTRIAL IS MORE INTENSIVE
THAN LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
SO HERE'S THE HERE'S THE ZONING
AND CLASSIFICATION IS BY FAR
THE GREATER PORTION OF THE AREA
OF THE CITY WHERE A LOT
OF RESIDENTIAL IS ALREADY
EXISTS AND WOULD BE CHEAP BY
JOWL WITH THIS ACTIVITY AND
THAT'S THE PLACE THAT WE'RE
PUTTING INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES
AND WE'RE USING LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL FOR HUB DISTRICT.
THERE'S A DISCONNECT THERE.
WE COULD SAY LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
IN BOTH CASES BUT THEN WE MIGHT
BE KIND OF HEADING DOWN THE
ROAD OF TRYING THIS ISN'T A
ZONING DOCUMENT, IT'S A PLAN.
BUT WE'RE KIND OF TRYING TO
EXCLUDE EVERY OTHER INDUSTRIAL
USES OR SUGGEST THAT THEY WILL
BE EXCLUDED FROM THE CITY AND
MAYBE THAT WILL NEVER BE A
PROBLEM BECAUSE NOBODY WOULD
COME IN AND DEMONSTRATE THERE'S
A NEED FOR THIS HEAVY
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY THAT WOULD
GET US INTO TROUBLE LEGALLY.
BUT THERE'S SOME DISCONNECTS
HAPPENING HERE AND I UNDERSTAND
THE STEPS GIVEN THE WAY WE'VE
WE FOLDED FLUX INTO TRANSITION
IS TRYING TO RECOGNIZE THE
LEGAL IMPLICATIONS OF WHAT
WE'RE DOING CONCEPTUALLY
STRICTLY SPEAKING IT WOULD MAKE
I'M NOT THE CITY'S LEGAL
COUNSEL BUT LEGALLY IT WOULD
MAKE THE MOST SENSE TO ALLOW IT
TO TAKE OUT THE MODIFIER AND
HAVE INDUSTRIAL ALLOWED IN BOTH
TRANSITION AND HUB DISTRICTS
AND THEN ALSO INCLUDE THE
PROVISION.
BUT WE RECOGNIZE AND EXPECT
THAT ORDINANCES AND
LAWS AND
NUISANCE LAWS WILL BE OPERATED
IN A WAY THAT WILL ENSURE THAT
THOSE ACTIVITIES DON'T BECOME
CENTERS TO NEIGHBORING
ACTIVITIES.
RIGHT.
SO WE'RE NOT EXCLUDING THEM.
WE'RE GOING TO BE DARN SURE
THAT WE'RE ENGAGING THE LAWFUL
POWERS THAT WE HAVE TO MAKE
SURE THAT THE ACTIVITIES THAT
HAPPEN IF THEY END BEING
DEVELOPED AREN'T CREATING
NUISANCE FOR NEIGHBORING
PROPERTIES.
THAT'S THE LOGICAL I'M JUST
THROWING THIS ON THE TABLE TO
GET IT OUT FOR PEOPLE TO DO A
LOT.
BUT AGAIN, I JUST WANT TO
RETURN TO THE POINT THOUGH THAT
THE COLLAPSING OF FLACCIDITY
TRANSITION DID NOT CAUSE THIS
BECAUSE THE BOTH FLECK'S AND
TRANSITION ORIGINALLY SAID
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
SO THIS THIS WAS INTRODUCED
AFTER THAT DECISION WAS MADE
BUT IT IS NOT THAT DOES NOT
LOGICALLY FLOW FROM IT BECAUSE
BOTH OF THOSE DISTRICTS
PREVIOUSLY SAID LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL.
>> SO THEN WE WERE KIND
OF EXCLUDING WELL BUT AGAIN, I
DON'T THINK WE ARE WORK
SUPPRESSING A POLICY PREFERENCE
THAT THE INDUSTRIAL THAT IS
LOCATED WITHIN CITY LIMITS
SHOULD BE LIGHT WHATEVER THAT
MEANS.
THAT'S NOT A DEFINED TERM BUT
GOING BACK IF YOU REALLY IF YOU
WANT TO PULL THE STATUTE IT IS
MCO ONE TWENTY FIVE POINT THREE
TO SEVEN AND IT IS LONG AND
IT'S MORE THAN JUST SO THERE'S
A LOT OF THINGS A LOT OF BOXES
YOU HAVE TO CHECK TO RUN AFOUL
OF THIS.
YOU HAVE TO TOTALLY PROHIBIT
THE ESTABLISHMENT OF THAT LAND
USE.
THERE HAS TO BE A DEMONSTRATED
NEED FOR THAT LAND USE WITHIN
THAT LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT
OR THE SURROUNDING AREA AND
THERE'S AN EXCEPTION THE
LOCATION WITHIN THE LOCAL UNIT
OF GOVERNMENT DOES NOT EXIST
WHERE THE USE MAY BE
APPROPRIATELY LOCATED OR THEY
USE AS UNLAWFUL.
PERSONALLY I WOULD ARGUE THERE
IS NO PLACE WITHIN THE CITY
LIMITS WHERE A HEAVY OR EVEN
QUASI HEAVY INDUSTRIAL USE IS
PROBABLY APPROPRIATE RELOCATED.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THAT MEANS
BUT I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD BE
SIGNALING TO PEOPLE YOU MIGHT
SEE THIS BUT THEN OH DON'T
WORRY WE'RE GOING TO TAKE CARE
OF IT WITH NUISANCE LIKE THE
RIGHT SIGNAL TO THE COMMUNITY
IS INDUSTRIAL SHOULD BE FOLDED
INTO THE COMMUNITY THAT'S LIGHT
.
THAT'S SAFE.
THAT DOESN'T PERMIT NOXIOUS
FUMES.
THAT'S APPROPRIATE.
AND I THINK THAT'S AGAIN THIS
IS A POLICY DOCUMENT IF THERE
ARE LEGAL CONSTRAINTS THAT WE
HAVE TO MEET, THAT'S FOR THE
LAWYERS TO DECIDE LATER ON.
THAT'S NOT OUR CALL AND I DON'T
THINK WE SHOULD WADE INTO IT
AND I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD
SIGNAL WE THINK IT'S
APPROPRIATE TO PUT HEAVY
INDUSTRY WITHIN THE CITY.
I JUST HAD TO WAIT.
I WANT TO REITERATE HIS COMMENT
IF THAT'S PART OF THIS REVIEW,
THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE WILL
REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT AND IF
THEY BELIEVE THAT THIS PUTS ANY
SORT OF RISK AT THE CITY,
THEY'RE GOING TO ADVISE THE
CITY COUNCIL PROBABLY TO DIRECT
CHANGES TO IT.
SO I DON'T WANT TO I AGREE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS, THIS IS NOT
YOU DON'T HAVE TO SOLVE THE
TABLE.
I THINK THAT THE REASON STAFF
BRAINTEASERS TRIED TO
ANTICIPATE THAT SCRUTINY I AM
NOT THE CITY'S LEGAL COUNSEL SO
I DON'T I DON'T WANT TO SIT
HERE AND TELL YOU BY INCLUDING
THIS LANGUAGE THAT YOU'RE GOING
TO BE PROTECTED OR NOT SO SO
WHATEVER YOUR POLICY DESIRES, I
JUST WANT TO REITERATE AT THIS
POINT THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN.
THE ATTORNEY'S OFFICE IS GOING
TO REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT AND
FACE SEE CAUSE FOR CONCERN.
THEY WILL COMMUNICATE THAT TO
THE COUNCIL WILL THEN
COMMUNICATED BACK TO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION.
I AM NOT THE CITY'S ATTORNEY
BUT I AM ALSO AN ATTORNEY.
>> THERE IS NO THIS IS STILL A
GUIDANCE DOCUMENT.
THAT'S ALL IT IS.
IT'S NOT LAW NO ONE HAS
STANDING.
I MEAN YOU TELL ME IF I'M WRONG
THERE'S NO ONE IS STANDING TO
SUE US BECAUSE WE SAY LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL AND ASPIRATIONAL
GUIDANCE DOCUMENT AND IT'S I
JUST DON'T I'M NOT DETECTING
ANY RISK BY COMMUNICATING WHAT
WE THINK IS THE RIGHT THING FOR
THE COMMUNITY.
>> KNOW THE PLAN THE PLAN IS BY
ITSELF IS NOT ILLEGAL LEGALLY
ENFORCEABLE DOCUMENT BUT IT
LAYS THE GROUNDWORK TO MAKE
ZONING ACTIONS AND IT SUPPORTS
THE LEGALITY OF THE
REASONABLENESS AND LOCAL ZONING
ACTIONS.
SO IF WE ARE HEADING DOWN THE
ROAD OF SAYING WE DON'T THINK
HOW INDUSTRIAL HAS A PLACE IN
ANN ARBOR WHICH IS KIND OF WHAT
WE'RE SAYING IF WE HIGHLIGHT
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL THAT'S A
POLICY CHOICE WE'RE MAKING, HOW
WILL THAT TRANSLATE INTO
ULTIMATELY ZONING
CODE DECISIONS?
WE MIGHT END UP BEING FORCED TO
TAKE HEAVY INDUSTRIAL IF
SOMEBODY CAN DEMONSTRATE ALL
OF THOSE THINGS AND MAKE A
CREDIBLE CASE THAT THERE IS A
PLACE FOR IT IN THE CITY ALL
THAT'S PRETTY SPECULATIVE AND
PRETTY FAR DOWN THE ROAD I'M
JUST TO THAT POINT THAT I DON'T
THINK THAT'S GOING TO HAPPEN IF
THAT'S PRESENTED TO US, THE
CITY IS GOING TO HAVE THE
OPPORTUNITY TO RESPOND TO THAT.
SO I DON'T LIKE BUT THIS
DOCUMENT IS GOING TO BE THE
FIRST PLACE WE LOOK TO TO
FIGURE OUT HOW ONE RESPOND TO
IT.
>> SO IF WE DON'T HAVE A
DEFINITION OF LIGHT AND HEAVY
INDUSTRIAL DOING BECAUSE WHAT
POPS INTO MY HEAD GIVEN THE
DISCUSSION TODAY IS A
SLAUGHTERHOUSE WHICH YOU SAY
THERE IS DEMONSTRABLE NEED.
I MEAN WE HAD AN AGRICULTURE
BUSINESS HERE TODAY LOOKING FOR
COMMERCIAL USE WHICH THERE'S
YOU KNOW, WASHTENAW COUNTY HAS
MORE FARMS NOW THAN AND THERE
IS A SLAUGHTERHOUSE GOING IN
FAIRLY NEAR TO US FINALLY.
BUT THAT HAS BEEN A HUGE NEED
IN THE COMMUNITY FOR A LONG
TIME.
I'LL USE BECAUSE I THINK IT IS
BEING MANAGED IN ANOTHER WAY.
SO I DON'T THINK THERE'S A
SLAUGHTERHOUSE KNOCKING ON THE
DOOR.
PEOPLE FREAK OUT THE IDEA OF A
SLAUGHTERHOUSE BECAUSE THAT'S
ALWAYS BEEN A THING OF LIKE A
BAD USE.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT THEY'RE LIKE
NOW.
I DON'T YOU KNOW, WE'RE A LONG
WAY FROM THE SLAUGHTERHOUSE
OF YORE BUT LIKE IS THAT IF WE
USE AN EXAMPLE OF SOMETHING IS
THAT LIGHT OR HEAVY?
IS IT YOU KNOW, LIKE WITHOUT
THAT DEFINITION I MEAN WE CAN
SAY WELL LIGHT IS GOOD AND
HEAVY IS BAD BUT I DON'T KNOW
WHAT IT IS.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE AND WHAT
DO OUR REGULATIONS WHAT CHANGES
ABOUT OUR REGULATIONS WHETHER
IT'S LIGHT OR HEAVY AND IS
THERE IS IT JUST THE WORD THAT
MAKES PEOPLE FEEL BETTER IF IT
SAYS LIGHT DO WE SPELL IT OUT
HERE LIGHT LIKE IS IT WHAT IS
THE YOU KNOW WHAT ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT HERE ON OUR
CURRENT FRAMEWORK?
I WOULD CALL IT HEAVY BECAUSE
IT IS IN OUR M-2 WHICH IS OUR
MOST INTENSIVE DISTRICT AND ON
TOP OF THAT IT'S A SPECIAL
EXCEPTION USE IN THAT DISTRICT
.
IT'S NOT A PERMITTED IN ANY
OTHER DISTRICT IN THE CITY.
SO YOU'RE RIGHT, WE DON'T
DEFINE SPECIFICALLY HEAVY
INDUSTRIAL OR SO THE LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL BUT CERTAIN
FACILITIES I WOULD SAY THE
COMMUNITY SAYING THAT IT'S A
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE ONLY IN
OUR MOST POTENTIALLY INTENSIVE
ZONING DISTRICT.
IT'S PROBABLY AS GOOD A CASE
OF ANY USE IN OUR TABLE TO SAY
THAT WE CALL IT HEAVY HEAVIER
INDUSTRIAL USE.
I THINK THIS WOULD BE BECAUSE
I'M JUST GOING TO FLOAT THIS.
I DON'T THINK THERE'S HEAVY
INDUSTRIAL I DON'T THINK THAT
PHRASE APPEARS IN THE PLAN.
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DID APPEAR IN
THE PLAN HEAVY INDUSTRIAL I
DON'T THINK DOES I THINK THE
WORD INDUSTRIAL DOES SO IF WE
IF WE ONLY USED THE WORD
INDUSTRIAL THEN WE'RE WE'RE NOT
IMPLYING ANYTHING ONE WAY OR
THE OTHER ABOUT WHETHER IT'S
THE LIGHT VERSUS LIGHT VERSION
OR THE HEAVY VERSION AND I
THINK PRECISELY WHAT COUNSEL IS
ASKING FOR IS NOT JUST NUISANCE
STANDARDS BUT THINGS LIKE
SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE THAT IS A
TOOL THAT YOU USE BECAUSE IN
ORDER TO NOT YOU KNOW, IN ORDER
TO CONTROL WHAT YOU ALLOW IN
CERTAIN PLACES IT'S SO AGAIN WE
ARE TRYING TO NOT HAVE THIS
WE'RE NOT WE'RE TRYING TO NOT
HAVE ANYONE THEM TO AND SEE ONE
AND ARE FOR YOU KNOW, WE'RE
TRYING TO SIMPLIFY ZONING AND
SO I WONDER IF IT WOULDN'T WORK
TO SIMPLY HAVE THE WORD
INDUSTRIAL AND PUT A CALL
OUTBOX INTO THE TEXT WITH THESE
ARE THE TOOLS THAT WE HAVE.
>> WE HAVE ON THE BOOKS.
WE HAVE LOOSENED STANDARDS.
WE HAVE SPECIAL EXCEPTION USE
PROVISIONS.
THIS ALLOWS US TO DO YOU KNOW,
TO ENSURE THAT WHAT WE ALLOW IN
PROXIMITY TO RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS CAN BE LIVED WITH ARE
NOT YEAH I'M IN I'M REALLY
GETTING ON LIKE I DON'T KNOW
HOW TO PUT IT INTO WORDS BUT SO
JUST BEFORE WE KEEP TALKING
ABOUT THIS FOR ABOUT HALF AN
HOUR SCHRAM'S YOU SAID
SOMETHING ABOUT A STRAW POLL AT
THE BEGINNING.
>> I'D LIKE TO MOVE FORWARD
WITH MY LANGUAGE THAT I
PROPOSED WITH THE MODIFICATION
YOU HAVE IN THAT ALSO WOULD BE
REVISING INDUSTRIAL TO SITE
INDUSTRIAL SUPPORT.
IT WOULD BE LIGHT INDUSTRIAL
TRANSITION THEN I CAN REMEMBER
THE LANGUAGE THE COMMISSIONER
LABOR I THINK MR WROTE DOWN
SOMEWHERE IN THE VIDEO REPORT
THAT WOULD BE THAT WOULD BE THE
MOTION I WOULD MAKE FOR A STRAW
POLL BECAUSE AGAIN I SORT
OF THINK THE WORD LIGHT IS A
MODIFIER IS IMPORTANT.
>> I THINK FOR THE PURPOSE
OF CLARIFICATION ACTUALLY I HAD
ACTUALLY JUST SIMPLY STATED
ZONING DISTRICTS NUISANCE
ORDINANCE IS PERMITTED USES
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS SHOULD BE
REVIEWED AND REVISED IS
APPROPRIATE TO PERMIT THE
APPROPRIATE SAFE INTEGRATION
OF A WIDE VARIETY OF BUSINESSES
IN THE TRANSITION.
SO I ACTUALLY AVOIDED INDUSTRY.
I JUST SAID YES ENTIRELY WELL
AND HERE HEAR ME BECAUSE WHAT
I'M THINKING THROUGH IS LIKE
NOT ONLY SLAUGHTERHOUSES BUT I
THINK DRONES LIKE DRONE
MANUFACTURING.
YOU KNOW WHEN I THINK OF LIKE
START UPS OR THINGS OF THAT
NATURE THAT ARE OCCURRING IN
OUR CITY.
RIGHT.
LIKE THE MODIFICATION MOTORS OR
THE I THINK OF FRONTIER IN
HEALTH CARE INNOVATION OR ASAY
DEVELOPMENT OR RIGHT.
LIKE THERE'S SUCH A WIDE
DIFFERENT TYPES OF BUSINESSES
THAT LOCATE HERE.
AND WHAT I DON'T WANT IS YOU
KNOW, I TALKED ABOUT ECONOMIC
DIVERSIFICATION.
IT'S KIND OF A MAINSTAY THAT I
WANT TO CONTINUE TO PROPAGATE
SO
THE LANGUAGE THAT I'M
WILLING TO I ACTUALLY JUST DOWN
BASICALLY TO SAY APPROPRIATE
SAFE INTEGRATION OF A WIDE
VARIETY OF BUSINESSES IN THE
TRANSITION TRACKS.
IT SIGNALS THE APPROPRIATENESS
AND THE SAFE INTEGRATION.
WE DON'T REALLY CROSS THE
INDUSTRY KIND OF CONCEPT.
RIGHT.
IT'S JUST AS A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES IT LEAVES IT OPEN
BUT SIGNALS AGAIN SAFETY AS A
AS A HALLMARK.
SO INSTEAD THE MODIFIER I THINK
IT'S THE WORD INDUSTRIAL THAT
WE ARE KIND OF HUNG UP ON.
BUT I THINK WHEN IT COMES TO
SEMICONDUCTOR PROCESS
OPTIMIZATION OR ANYTHING THAT
HAS TO DO WITH AGAIN FRONTIER
TECHNOLOGIES THAT ARE DEVELOPED
HERE, I THINK WE DO WANT TO
HAVE SOME LEVEL OF FLEXIBILITY
IN THE NEW SCIENCE STANDARDS TO
HELP ADJUDICATE AND CONTROL
EMANATION AND DISTURBANCE AND
TO LIKE ITS ADJACENT AREA.
SO BUT I AGREE FOR BECAUSE THE
CONVERSATION IS GETTING PRETTY
ESOTERIC, I THINK THAT IT'S
IMPORTANT THAT WE KIND OF JUST
HAVE A STRAW POLL AND SEE IF I
DO THIS RIGHT.
>> SO YOU KIND OF ARE HAVING A
SUBSTITUTE EDIT YOU'RE SOMEHOW
SUBSTITUTE.
YEAH, I THINK YEAH WELL THIS IS
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL WITH THE SAME
THOUGH THERE ARE A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES THE APPROPRIATE
SAFE INTEGRATION.
>> SO BASICALLY LOOK AT THE
LAST HE MR. ADAMS CHANGED
DEPARTMENT D'WAYNE I'S
INDUSTRIAL SCALE AND INDUSTRIAL
AND THEN COMMISSIONER HE WAS
UNDER THE SECOND BULLET
PERFORMANCE OF CONSIDERATION.
WHAT I'M HEARING SO MANY
DISTRICTS NUISANCE ORDINANCES,
PERMIT USES AND PERFORMANCE
STANDARD SHOULD BE REVIEWED AND
REVISED AS APPROPRIATE TO
PERMIT THE APPROPRIATE AND SAFE
INTEGRATION OF A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES INTO TRANSITION
DISTRICTS.
>> YES, YEAH THAT'S WHAT I WAS
HEARING THIS WEEK FROM
ADDITIONAL THAT THOSE ARE
RIGHT.
>> YES, I WOULD LIKE TO DO
THESE TWO SEPARATELY.
>> YEAH YEAH I THINK THAT'S A
GOOD IDEA.
SO LET'S START WITH I GUESS THE
REVISING INDUSTRIAL TO LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL ON THIS PAGE.
I DO THINK IT'S WORTH TALKING
ABOUT IT IF IT'S ELSEWHERE IN
THE DOCUMENT DEPENDING ON THE
OUTCOME OF THE STRUGGLE.
>> UM, HOW DO YOU SAY IS GOING
TO LIGHT?
IS THAT HOW WE'RE DOING IT?
THAT'S WHAT I WAS GOING TO ASK.
GOT IT.
YES.
LIKE YES.
YES WOULD BE YOU WOULD BE
CHANGING IT TO LET INDUSTRIAL
NH OR WHATEVER WOULD BE
KEEPING INDUSTRIAL LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL IN JUST THIS SPOT
NOT IN THE HUB I MEAN THE HUB
POSITION CATEGORY.
>> LET'S DO IT JUST IN THIS
SPOT IT'S CURRENTLY LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL RIGHT?
>> YEAH.
>> SO THIS IS JUST CHANGING IN
A TRANSITION TO LIGHT
INDUSTRIAL OK, ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR I YEAH.
>> ARE YOU COMING TO THAT TOO.
>> OK OPPOSED TO THE PERMIT.
OK COMMISSIONER AND YOU HAVE TO
DO SOMETHING.
>> I'M STILL TRYING TO FIGURE
OUT WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO SO
SO IT'S IT'S IT'S ON PAGE ONE
TWENTY AND OUR PRIMARY USES FOR
TRANSITION IT'S TO GET US TO
CHANGE TO LIGHT INDUSTRIAL OR
TO KEEP IT INDUSTRIAL AND I
FEEL LIKE YOU I'M NOT PUTTING
WORDS IN YOUR MOUTH BUT I FEEL
LIKE YOU WERE ARGUING TOWARDS
KEEPING AN INDUSTRIAL BECAUSE
IT WOULD BE BROADER.
>> I OF ALL OF THE USES WE'RE
DESCRIBING THAT'S THE ONLY ONE
THAT'S GETTING A MODIFIER WE
DON'T MODIFY LIGHT IN
RESIDENTIAL OR HEAVY
RESIDENTIAL OR LIGHT COMMERCIAL
HEAVY COMMERCIAL TRADE BUT I
THINK THEY SHOULD BE CONSISTENT
ACROSS THE TWO DISTRICTS.
IT MAKES NO SENSE TO ME TO HAVE
TERMS OF SOME INDUSTRIAL BE
LIGHTING TOTALLY.
>> AND I WANT I WANT TO GET TO
I WANT TO GET TO THAT.
COULD WE NOT USE THE WORD
DISTRICT THOUGH?
COULD WE?
BECAUSE ZONING THINGS ARE
DISTRICTS AND THESE ARE
CATEGORIES SO THAT WE COULD
JUST YEAH OK.
YEAH YEAH YEAH I UNDERSTAND
COMMISSIONER ADAMS CONCERN
ABOUT THE THE DESIRABILITY
OF MODIFYING INDUSTRIAL TO CALL
IT LIGHT INDUSTRIAL.
I'M ACTUALLY NOT OPPOSED TO
THAT IN CONCEPT BUT WE ARE
SENDING A SIGNAL THAT WE'RE
HEADING DOWN THE ROAD OF SAYING
WE'RE GOING TO WE'RE GOING TO
MAYBE TRY AND EXCLUDE HEAVY OR
INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITIES FROM THE
CITY.
THE PLAN WOULDN'T DO THAT BUT
IT WOULD MAKE IT HARDER TO DO
IT IN ZONING IF THE PLAN IS
MADE A POLICY CHOICE THAT WE'RE
NOT GOING TO ALLOW THAT TO
HAPPEN.
WE SHOULD BE MINDFUL THAT
THAT'S THE ROAD WE'RE HEADING
DOWN.
>> THAT'S THE POINT I'M TRYING
TO MAKE IF WE GO THERE.
YEAH, WE WANT THAT TRANSITION.
CAN WE THEN DO A STRAW POLL ON
THE LANGUAGE THAT I'M NOT GOING
TO MAKE COMMISSIONER TO REPEAT
AGAIN TO ADD ON PERFORMANCE
CONSIDERATIONS IN TRANSITION
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR.
OH WOULD YOU LIKE A REPEAT
OF THE THING THAT I WANTED TO
SAY WAS I I DIDN'T PICK UP
ACTUALLY UNTIL OUR LAST COMMENT
JUST THIS RIGHT BEFORE HE SAID
THIS THAT WE THAT THAT VERSION
DROPS INTO ANY KIND OF A
REFERENCE TO INDUSTRY AND I'M
CURIOUS ABOUT EXACTLY WHAT
COMMISSIONER LEE SAID BUT
INSTEAD ADDING TO THE END A
WIDE VARIETY OF BUSINESSES AND
INDUSTRIES WHICH IS DIFFERENT
THAN INDUSTRY I DON'T KNOW NO.
THIS IS COMMERCIAL TO YOU WHAT
I HEAR BUSINESS I THINK
OF COMMERCIAL.
I DON'T THINK OF INDUSTRY LIKE
I DON'T THINK INDUSTRIAL TO BE
HONEST ARE BUSINESSES.
I MEAN THEY ARE I KNOW THAT
THEY ARE I MEAN OK SO THAT WILL
BE VOTED DOWN NEVER MIND OK DO
COMMISSIONER LEAVE THAT MAKES
US RIGHT.
DOES ANYONE WANT TO REPEAT IT.
>> OH NO NO I DON'T KNOW ALL
THOSE IN FAVOR I DID YOU VOTE
THIS I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY A
BAD IDEA TO TAKE OUT INDUSTRIAL
ONE.
WE'RE SAYING WE'RE GOING TO
MAKE SURE THAT USES DON'T CAUSE
NUISANCES.
THE IMPLICATION TO ME IS WE'RE
NOT GOING TO WORRY ABOUT
INDUSTRIAL USES AND MAKE SURE
THAT THEY DON'T CREATE
NUISANCES BY TAKING THAT WORD
OUT.
>> ALL THOSE OPPOSED OPPOSE OK
,THAT'S WHY I SUGGESTED AN
INTERESTING ARE GOING TO IT'S
GOING IN THE OPPOSITE DIRECTION
OF WHAT YOU THINK YOU'RE TRYING
TO DO.
>> OK, I HEAR YOU, MR.
LEONHARDT.
CAN YOU HAVE THE CITY ATTORNEY
ADVISE ON THIS?
SO RIGHT NOW IT IS SAYING THAT
NUISANCE ORDINANCES AND
STANDARDS SHOULD BE REVIEWED
AND REVISED TO APPROPRIATE TO
PERMIT SAME INAPPROPRIATE
INTEGRATION OF A WIDE VARIETY
OF BUSINESSES.
SO RIGHT NOW I THINK THAT IS
SAYING WE SHOULD LOOK AT OUR
CODE TO MAKE SURE ANY TYPE
OF BUSINESS IN THE TRANSITION
DISTRICT, WHETHER IT IS A
COFFEE SHOP OR A SLAUGHTERHOUSE
OR A MANUFACTURER OR AN AMAZON
HUB OR A SLAUGHTERHOUSE OR
ANYTHING SHOULD BE CONSIDERED
IN THE CONTEXT OF THOSE
ORDINANCES.
SO THEY ARE NOT TO HARMONIZE
WITH THEY ARE SAFELY AND
APPROPRIATELY INTEGRATED INTO
THIS DISTRICT WHICH IS ALSO
GOING TO HAVE PEOPLE LIVING
THERE AND OTHER TYPES
OF BUSINESSES EXISTING THERE.
AND SO I THINK RIGHT NOW THE
LANGUAGE IS MORE BROAD.
IT DOES APPLY TO INDUSTRIAL I
DISAGREE WITH THE CONCERN
ORDINANCE BUT I THINK IT ALSO
SAYS WE ALSO NEED TO BE
THOUGHTFUL.
ALL BUSINESSES.
>> IS THAT TOO MUCH IS THAT
INACCURATE?
THAT RIGHT.
>> ALL RIGHT.
IS THAT DISCOURAGING OF WHAT
BUSINESSES WE WANT THESE TO BE
MIXED USE?
>> WELL, MY I ACTUALLY MY
STANDARDS THAT WE'RE REVIEWING
IN REVIEWING THE STANDARDS THAT
WE HAVE I'M GUESSING AN
ORDINANCES TO PERMIT THAT A
WIDE VARIETY OF BUSINESSES.
>> SO MAYBE THOSE STANDARDS
MAYBE THE NUISANCE ORDINANCE
NEEDS TO CHANGE TO MAKE SURE
THAT ANYTHING THAT GOES INTO
TRANSITION WOULD APPROPRIATE
AND NOT UNSAFE.
>> TO ME THIS IS SAYING CITY
OF AABERG BEAUTY ORDINANCES TO
MAKE SURE THAT ANYTHING THAT
YOU WOULD PUT INTO THIS ANY
VARIETY OF BUSINESS THAT YOU
WOULD PUT INTO THIS DISTRICT
WOULD BE APPROPRIATE AND SAFE.
WELL, YOU KNOW, I THINK IT'S A
MATTER I THINK WE SHOULD
ACTUALLY GET OFF THIS ACTUALLY
ONLY ASPECT LET'S MOVE BECAUSE
WE'VE GOT SO MUCH TO DO, RIGHT?
YEAH.
I MEAN WE'VE GOT ALL THOSE
THINGS THAT WE DON'T KNOW WHERE
TO PUT ALL THINGS DECIDE WHERE
TO PUT.
>> SO I'M SORRY.
GO AHEAD.
OH, I WAS JUST GOING TO SAY IF
THERE'S ANYTHING ELSE IF WE
WERE MOVING ON FROM THIS I WAS
GOING TO THINK COMMISSIONER
ADAMS I WAS YES.
AND I THINK I WAS GOING TO JUST
MEMO'S AMAZING.
YEAH, IT'S GREAT.
THANK YOU.
>> THAT'S WHERE I WAS GOING TO
GO NEXT TO.
ED, ARE THERE ANY OTHER
COMMENTS ON ANY OTHER PARTS
OF THIS MEMO, THE PARTS THAT
COMMISSIONER ADAMS DRAFTED AND
THEN THAT STAFF EDITED WHICH I
THINK WE TALKED ABOUT THE STUFF
THAT IT'S JUST YOU KNOW, IT'S
JUST SO I KNOW WHETHER WE'VE
CLEANED UP SO NOW HOBSONS LIGHT
AND TRANSITION INDUSTRIAL.
>> YEAH.
BUT I THINK WE NEED TO WE'RE
GOING TO GET TO IT.
WE'LL NEED TO YEAH BUT THAT'S
NOT IN THIS MEMO OK.
>> WHEN ARE WE GOING TO GET
PROBABLY TO AN I'M GOOD WITH
THE MEMO AS IT STANDS.
>> OK SURE.
A STRAW POLL THIS MEMO.
YES SIR.
DO YOU WANT US TO VOTE ON THIS
MEMO THAT BECAUSE I WAS TROUBLE
ON THE MEMO WOULD BE GREAT?
WHAT I JUST WANT TO MAKE SURE
THAT I AM UNDERSTANDING IT IS
THE MEMO AS DRAFTED WITH THE
STAFF AND IT'S WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF THE CHANGES THAT
WERE AGREED TO THAT
COMMISSIONER DISAPPROVALS TO
PULL AT NUMBER TWO AND TO THE
RECENTLY COMPLETED MODIFICATION
STRAW POLLS THAT WOULD STRIKE
THE FST CHANGE AND ON PAGE
ONE TWENTY ON BOARD
TEN AND THE
CHANGE THAT WAS ALL RECENTLY
AGREED TO BY COMPLETELY ON THE
SECOND YES.
CORRECT.
YES.
A STRAW POLL.
I REALIZE ALL THAT AND THEN
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE THIS SORT
OF MARCHING ORDERS.
OK, SO WE'LL.
OK.
SO ALL THOSE PAPER TO
EVERYTHING THAT MR. MANAGER
JUST SAID ABOUT THIS RESPONSE
TO THE RESOLUTION SAY I ANY
POST.
>> ALL RIGHT.
WELL LET'S MOVE ON THEN TO
ELIMINATE THAT WE TO REVIEW THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN SECOND DRAFT
SO EASY BUSY I ACKNOWLEDGE THAT
I WAS NOT PART OF THE
CONVERSATION HERE.
I TOOK A VACATION NOT ALLOWED.
>> BUT MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
YOU MADE A LOT OF PROGRESS ON
SOME OF THE AREAS THAT WERE
IDENTIFIED IN SOME OF YOUR
COMMENTS FOR MAP EDITS.
HOWEVER YOU DIDN'T RESOLVE
EVERYTHING.
AND SO WHAT WE HAVE DONE IS WE
I THINK MICHELLE AND I INCLUDED
DESERVE A REVISED VERSION THAT
STILL HAD ALL THE AREAS IN
PLACE BUT IT SEPARATED ALL THE
ONES THAT WERE RESOLVED TO THE
END OF THE DOCUMENT AS PART
OF THAT CONVERSATION.
AND THIS IS WHERE I'M GETTING
WAY OUT AND PLEASE CORRECT ME
IF I'M WRONG THAT THERE WAS
SOME PROCESSING STRUGGLE ABOUT
HOW WE MAKE SOME OF THESE LAND
USE DECISIONS GIVEN THE
CATEGORIES THAT YOU WERE
DECIDING UPON.
AND SO WHAT WE DID ENDEAVORED
TO DO WAS TO PROVIDE A COUPLE
OF OPTIONS JUST MAYBE DIFFERENT
WAYS TO THINK ABOUT IT.
YOU DON'T HAVE TO USE ANY
OF THEM.
YOU COULD GO BACK TO THE MAPS
AND JUST USE YOUR EXISTING
CATEGORIES.
BUT WE DID CONSIDER A COUPLE
OF OPTIONS.
THE FIRST IS TO EXPAND OR TEAR
THE RESIDENTIAL LAND USE
CATEGORY SO YOU MIGHT RECALL
CATEGORY HAS GONE THROUGH SOME
THE RESIDENTIAL LAND USE
EVOLUTION OVER THE COURSE
CATEGORY HAS GONE THROUGH SOME
OF THIS PLANNING PROCESS AND
EVOLUTION OVER THE COURSE
ACCORDINGLY RIGHT NOW IT HAS
OF THIS PLANNING PROCESS AND
THE POTENTIAL TO BE VERY
ACCORDINGLY RIGHT NOW IT HAS
LIMITING TO SOME HIGHER DENSITY
THE POTENTIAL TO BE VERY
RESIDENTIAL AREAS THAT EXIST IN
LIMITING TO SOME HIGHER DENSITY
THE CITY AND SO BUT AT THE SAME
RESIDENTIAL AREAS THAT EXIST IN
TIME MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
THE CITY AND SO BUT AT THE SAME
THERE WAS SOME TREPIDATION,
TIME MY UNDERSTANDING IS THAT
PROCESS AND CONCERN ABOUT
THERE WAS SOME TREPIDATION,
SIMPLY TAKING WIDE SWATHS
PROCESS AND CONCERN ABOUT
OF OUR THREE AND OUR FOUR
SIMPLY TAKING WIDE SWATHS
ZONING DISTRICTS AND PRESUMING
OF OUR THREE AND OUR FOUR
A TRANSITION DISTRICT WAS THE
ZONING DISTRICTS AND PRESUMING
RIGHT THING FOR THOSE AS WELL.
A TRANSITION DISTRICT WAS THE
I THINK SOME OF THAT IS SORT
RIGHT THING FOR THOSE AS WELL.
OF IN THE VEIN OF WHAT
I THINK SOME OF THAT IS SORT
COMMISSIONER BUSH WAS TALKING
OF IN THE VEIN OF WHAT
ABOUT IS THE AMBIVALENCE OR
COMMISSIONER BUSH WAS TALKING
UNCERTAINTY THAT PEOPLE HAVE
ABOUT IS THE AMBIVALENCE OR
ABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS.
UNCERTAINTY THAT PEOPLE HAVE
I MEAN THREE STORIES DOESN'T
ABOUT WHAT THAT MEANS.
MEAN EIGHT STORIES AND HONESTLY
I MEAN THREE STORIES DOESN'T
I CAN'T SIT HERE AND TELL YOU
MEAN EIGHT STORIES AND HONESTLY
THAT I KNOW WHAT IT MEANS IN
I CAN'T SIT HERE AND TELL YOU
THOSE PROPERTIES UNTIL WE
THAT I KNOW WHAT IT MEANS IN
DEVELOP THE ZONING AROUND THAT
THOSE PROPERTIES UNTIL WE
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THAT
DEVELOP THE ZONING AROUND THAT
MEANS.
I DON'T KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THAT
AND SO ONE WAY TO APPROACH THAT
MEANS.
WOULD BE TO ADVOCATE OR TO
AND SO ONE WAY TO APPROACH THAT
THINK ABOUT A CERTAIN ASPECT
WOULD BE TO ADVOCATE OR TO
OF THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
THINK ABOUT A CERTAIN ASPECT
THAT IS A MULTIPLE FRIENDLY
OF THE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT
DISTRICT THAT MIGHT PROVIDE
THAT IS A MULTIPLE FRIENDLY
SOME FRANKLY MORE MAYBE
DISTRICT THAT MIGHT PROVIDE
SUBURBAN CATEGORIES
SOME FRANKLY MORE MAYBE
OF RESIDENTIAL THAT WE HAVE IN
SUBURBAN CATEGORIES
A LOT OF PLACES IN THE CITY.
OF RESIDENTIAL THAT WE HAVE IN
THEY'RE NOT EIGHT STORIES BUT
A LOT OF PLACES IN THE CITY.
THEY ARE HIGHER THAN TRY POXES
THEY'RE NOT EIGHT STORIES BUT
AND DENSITY.
THEY ARE HIGHER THAN TRY POXES
SO THAT WAS ONE OPTION AND THEN
AND DENSITY.
WE ALSO THOUGHT ABOUT SIMILARLY
SO THAT WAS ONE OPTION AND THEN
WITH THE TRANSITION LAND USE
WE ALSO THOUGHT ABOUT SIMILARLY
CATEGORY APPROACHING THAT THAT
WITH THE TRANSITION LAND USE
SEEMED LESS IDEAL TO US.
CATEGORY APPROACHING THAT THAT
THE TRANSITION CATEGORY SEEMS
SEEMED LESS IDEAL TO US.
WELL SUITED TO CAREER
THE TRANSITION CATEGORY SEEMS
DEVELOPMENT AND PARTICULARLY
WELL SUITED TO CAREER
SOME OF THESE AREAS ARE
DEVELOPMENT AND PARTICULARLY
STARTING TO GET SORT OF REMOVED
SOME OF THESE AREAS ARE
FROM CAUSE SO IT SEEMS.
STARTING TO GET SORT OF REMOVED
SPEAKING FOR MYSELF, THE
FROM CAUSE SO IT SEEMS.
RESIDENTIAL MIGHT BE A BETTER
SPEAKING FOR MYSELF, THE
LABORATORY TO THINK ABOUT HOW
RESIDENTIAL MIGHT BE A BETTER
THEY WANT TO ACCOMMODATE THOSE
LABORATORY TO THINK ABOUT HOW
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WE PROVIDED A
THEY WANT TO ACCOMMODATE THOSE
COUPLE OPTIONS I LEAN TOWARDS
SO THAT'S WHAT WE WE PROVIDED A
PROBABLY THINKING ABOUT A
COUPLE OPTIONS I LEAN TOWARDS
TIERED OR SOME APPROACH TO THE
PROBABLY THINKING ABOUT A
RESIDENTIAL LAND USE CATEGORY
TIERED OR SOME APPROACH TO THE
THAT CREATES SOMETHING THAT
RESIDENTIAL LAND USE CATEGORY
RESONATES WITH THE PLANNING
THAT CREATES SOMETHING THAT
COMMISSION.
RESONATES WITH THE PLANNING
BUT NONE OF THOSE OPTIONS ARE
COMMISSION.
WRONG AND HONESTLY I WAS JUST
BUT NONE OF THOSE OPTIONS ARE
TRYING TO GIVE YOU SOME OPTIONS
WRONG AND HONESTLY I WAS JUST
MAYBE IT MIGHT BE RESPONSIVE TO
TRYING TO GIVE YOU SOME OPTIONS
SOME OF THE CONVERSATIONS THAT
MAYBE IT MIGHT BE RESPONSIVE TO
YOU WERE HAVING BEFORE.
SOME OF THE CONVERSATIONS THAT
MAYBE THEY'RE NOT THE RIGHT
YOU WERE HAVING BEFORE.
IT'S THE RIGHT PATHWAYS BUT
MAYBE THEY'RE NOT THE RIGHT
THEY SAY YOU OFF FIND SOME WAY
IT'S THE RIGHT PATHWAYS BUT
TO THINK ABOUT THESE AREAS SO I
THEY SAY YOU OFF FIND SOME WAY
HAVE BEEN LOOKING A LOT AT WHAT
TO THINK ABOUT THESE AREAS SO I
IS IN THE CITY AND THE THE
HAVE BEEN LOOKING A LOT AT WHAT
LIMITATION TO TRIPLEX POSES A
IS IN THE CITY AND THE THE
PROBLEM IF IT I MEAN THE WAY IT
LIMITATION TO TRIPLEX POSES A
SHOULD BE UNDERSTOOD IS THAT IT
PROBLEM IF IT I MEAN THE WAY IT
IS A LIMITATION ONLY TO WHAT IS
SHOULD BE UNDERSTOOD IS THAT IT
CURRENTLY ZONED R ONE OR TWO SO
IS A LIMITATION ONLY TO WHAT IS
IT MAKES LESS OF AN ISSUE.
CURRENTLY ZONED R ONE OR TWO SO
BUT THE FACT IS THAT IN THERE
IT MAKES LESS OF AN ISSUE.
ARE NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE IF
BUT THE FACT IS THAT IN THERE
YOU'RE GOING UP THE MOUNTAIN
ARE NEIGHBORHOODS LIKE IF
WHERE THERE WILL BE THERE'S
YOU'RE GOING UP THE MOUNTAIN
ACTUALLY AN APARTMENT THAT IS
WHERE THERE WILL BE THERE'S
ORIENTED NOT TOWARDS THE STREET
ACTUALLY AN APARTMENT THAT IS
BUT IT'S HALF OF A COTTAGE
ORIENTED NOT TOWARDS THE STREET
COURT AND IT WOULD NOT BE
BUT IT'S HALF OF A COTTAGE
CORRECT IN THE PRINCIPLES
COURT AND IT WOULD NOT BE
OF THIS PLAN IN MY VIEW TO MAKE
CORRECT IN THE PRINCIPLES
THAT IMPOSSIBLE TO REBUILD OR
OF THIS PLAN IN MY VIEW TO MAKE
TO TO ENCOURAGE THAT TO IT'S
THAT IMPOSSIBLE TO REBUILD OR
OLDER.
TO TO ENCOURAGE THAT TO IT'S
SO TO ENCOURAGE THAT TO BE
OLDER.
REBUILT AS A BIGFOOT AND BUT
SO TO ENCOURAGE THAT TO BE
IT'S IN YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
REBUILT AS A BIGFOOT AND BUT
WHAT THAT PARCEL IS BUT IT IS
IT'S IN YOU KNOW, I DON'T KNOW
IN A NEIGHBORHOOD OF SINGLE
WHAT THAT PARCEL IS BUT IT IS
FAMILY HOUSING AND SO YOU COULD
IN A NEIGHBORHOOD OF SINGLE
ARGUE THAT THE PHRASE LARGER
FAMILY HOUSING AND SO YOU COULD
STRUCTURES WHERE YOU KNOW THE
ARGUE THAT THE PHRASE LARGER
EXISTING CONTEXT WARRANTS IT.
STRUCTURES WHERE YOU KNOW THE
YOU CAN ARGUE THAT THAT TAKES
EXISTING CONTEXT WARRANTS IT.
CARE OF IT.
YOU CAN ARGUE THAT THAT TAKES
BUT I WOULD BE A LITTLE AFRAID
CARE OF IT.
IF THAT'S JUST NOT ENOUGH
BUT I WOULD BE A LITTLE AFRAID
ASSURANCE.
IF THAT'S JUST NOT ENOUGH
AND SO ALSO LIKE IF YOU LOOK BY
ASSURANCE.
THE CEMETERY THAT'S NEAR THE
AND SO ALSO LIKE IF YOU LOOK BY
AAGOT LIVERY.
THE CEMETERY THAT'S NEAR THE
YEAH, THERE IS A BUNCH
AAGOT LIVERY.
OF MULTIFAMILY HOUSING THAT'S
YEAH, THERE IS A BUNCH
NOT TALL BUT IT'S IT'S IT'S
OF MULTIFAMILY HOUSING THAT'S
MANY UNITS RIGHT.
NOT TALL BUT IT'S IT'S IT'S
>> AND I DON'T WANT THAT TO NOT
MANY UNITS RIGHT.
BE APPROPRIATE.
>> AND I DON'T WANT THAT TO NOT
>> AND SO THIS IS WHERE I THINK
BE APPROPRIATE.
THIS IS THE ISSUE THAT WE ARE
>> AND SO THIS IS WHERE I THINK
TRYING TO GET AT.
THIS IS THE ISSUE THAT WE ARE
>> AND SO IT SEEMS IT SEEMED TO
TRYING TO GET AT.
ME FROM YOUR EYE I ENDED UP
>> AND SO IT SEEMS IT SEEMED TO
AGREEING WITH YOU THAT I FEEL
ME FROM YOUR EYE I ENDED UP
LIKE TRANSITION BECOMES
AGREEING WITH YOU THAT I FEEL
SOMETHING THAT I UNDERSTAND
LIKE TRANSITION BECOMES
BETTER WHEN IT IS A CORRIDOR
SOMETHING THAT I UNDERSTAND
THING AND WHEN IT GOES INTO
BETTER WHEN IT IS A CORRIDOR
THESE THINGS THAT ARE BUILT
THING AND WHEN IT GOES INTO
LIKE SUBURBAN CUL DE SAC
THESE THINGS THAT ARE BUILT
DEVELOPMENTS, IT'S IT'S A LOT
LIKE SUBURBAN CUL DE SAC
HARDER TO EXPLAIN THAT AND SO
DEVELOPMENTS, IT'S IT'S A LOT
AND HAVE A PRINCIPLE FOR WHY IT
HARDER TO EXPLAIN THAT AND SO
GOES THERE AND SO I THINK THE
AND HAVE A PRINCIPLE FOR WHY IT
IDEA OF EXPANDING AND HEARING
GOES THERE AND SO I THINK THE
THE RESIDENTIAL THING AND
IDEA OF EXPANDING AND HEARING
UNDERSTANDING COUNCILS
THE RESIDENTIAL THING AND
LIMITATIONS TO APPLY ONLY TO
UNDERSTANDING COUNCILS
THE TIER THAT INCLUDES ARE ONE
LIMITATIONS TO APPLY ONLY TO
AND TWO AND THEN TAKING
THE TIER THAT INCLUDES ARE ONE
SERIOUSLY THAT ARGUMENT THAT
AND TWO AND THEN TAKING
YOU KNOW WELL IT'S PERFECTLY
SERIOUSLY THAT ARGUMENT THAT
APPROPRIATE TO HAVE A STRUCTURE
YOU KNOW WELL IT'S PERFECTLY
THAT DOESN'T MEET THOSE
APPROPRIATE TO HAVE A STRUCTURE
DESCRIPTIONS WHEN IT'S ALREADY
THAT DOESN'T MEET THOSE
THERE.
DESCRIPTIONS WHEN IT'S ALREADY
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD HAVE
THERE.
ANOTHER ONE OF THOSE OR YOU
YOU KNOW, YOU COULD HAVE
COULD REBUILD THAT ONE.
ANOTHER ONE OF THOSE OR YOU
YOU KNOW, I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE
COULD REBUILD THAT ONE.
HOW THAT WORKS IN THIS BUT
YOU KNOW, I'M NOT EXACTLY SURE
WE'RE NOT ZONING RIGHT NOW SO
HOW THAT WORKS IN THIS BUT
WE DON'T HAVE TO ANSWER THAT
WE'RE NOT ZONING RIGHT NOW SO
QUESTION.
WE DON'T HAVE TO ANSWER THAT
>> SO TO ME THE TIER THE
QUESTION.
EXPANDING AND TIERING OF ARE
>> SO TO ME THE TIER THE
ONE AND TWO MAKES A LOT
EXPANDING AND TIERING OF ARE
OF SENSE AT WHAT I LOOK AT WHEN
ONE AND TWO MAKES A LOT
I'M AROUND IT OUT IN THE CITY.
OF SENSE AT WHAT I LOOK AT WHEN
AND THE THING IS THAT WHEN WE
I'M AROUND IT OUT IN THE CITY.
LOOK AT THE MAPS IN THIS I
AND THE THING IS THAT WHEN WE
THINK WHAT'S HAPPENING TO US
LOOK AT THE MAPS IN THIS I
LAST TIME THE ZONING IS OFTEN A
THINK WHAT'S HAPPENING TO US
PATCHWORK SO OUR THREE AND FOUR
LAST TIME THE ZONING IS OFTEN A
ARE TOGETHER IN A LOT OF PLACES
PATCHWORK SO OUR THREE AND FOUR
AND THEY'RE ACTUALLY PRETTY
ARE TOGETHER IN A LOT OF PLACES
DIFFERENT LIKE OUR THREE ISN'T
AND THEY'RE ACTUALLY PRETTY
ALL THAT INCOMPATIBLE WITH
DIFFERENT LIKE OUR THREE ISN'T
COUNCIL'S LIMITS BUT IT'S IN
ALL THAT INCOMPATIBLE WITH
WITH OUR FORCE.
COUNCIL'S LIMITS BUT IT'S IN
SO WE I THINK IT WOULD BE
WITH OUR FORCE.
HELPFUL TO HAVE A CLEARLY
SO WE I THINK IT WOULD BE
TIERED RESIDENTIAL I DON'T
HELPFUL TO HAVE A CLEARLY
KNOW.
TIERED RESIDENTIAL I DON'T
SO THAT'S MY I'M GOING TO STOP
KNOW.
TALKING NOW BECAUSE YOU GUYS
SO THAT'S MY I'M GOING TO STOP
ARE JUST MORE OF AN SO I'LL SAY
TALKING NOW BECAUSE YOU GUYS
THIS IT'S GOING TO MUDDY THE
ARE JUST MORE OF AN SO I'LL SAY
WATERS AND YOU CAN TAKE AWAY
THIS IT'S GOING TO MUDDY THE
FROM IT WHAT YOU WILL.
WATERS AND YOU CAN TAKE AWAY
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
FROM IT WHAT YOU WILL.
WE'VE HAD IN IS ONE OF THE
BUT ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
INITIAL CHARGES FROM COUNCIL
WE'VE HAD IN IS ONE OF THE
WAS NOT REINFORCING EXISTING
INITIAL CHARGES FROM COUNCIL
OFTEN EXCLUSIONARY PRACTICES OR
WAS NOT REINFORCING EXISTING
POLICIES.
OFTEN EXCLUSIONARY PRACTICES OR
>> AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
POLICIES.
I'M STRUGGLING WITH IS THAT OUR
>> AND ONE OF THE THINGS THAT
CURRENT ZONING IS BASED ON
I'M STRUGGLING WITH IS THAT OUR
EXISTING EXCLUSIONARY PRACTICES
CURRENT ZONING IS BASED ON
OR POLICIES.
EXISTING EXCLUSIONARY PRACTICES
>> AND SO WHEN YOU SAY LIKE OH
OR POLICIES.
THIS IS LIKE MY HOUSE IS IN OUR
>> AND SO WHEN YOU SAY LIKE OH
FORESE ACROSS THE STREET IS NOT
THIS IS LIKE MY HOUSE IS IN OUR
OUR FARSE AND THERE ARE REASONS
FORESE ACROSS THE STREET IS NOT
FOR THAT AND THERE ARE
OUR FARSE AND THERE ARE REASONS
HISTORICAL REASONS FOR THAT AND
FOR THAT AND THERE ARE
THAT IS BASED PRETTY MUCH ON
HISTORICAL REASONS FOR THAT AND
WHO LIVED IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
THAT IS BASED PRETTY MUCH ON
VERSUS WHO LIVED ACROSS THE
WHO LIVED IN MY NEIGHBORHOOD
STREET AND YOU SEE THAT IN THE
VERSUS WHO LIVED ACROSS THE
HISTORICAL BUSINESSES AND THE
STREET AND YOU SEE THAT IN THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVED ON MY SIDE
HISTORICAL BUSINESSES AND THE
OF THE STREET AND THEN THE THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVED ON MY SIDE
YOU EXCLUSIONARY ZONING AND
OF THE STREET AND THEN THE THE
HISTORIES ON THE OTHER SIDE
YOU EXCLUSIONARY ZONING AND
OF THE STREET.
HISTORIES ON THE OTHER SIDE
AND SO WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
OF THE STREET.
LIKE WELL WHAT DO WE DO?
AND SO WHEN WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
WE DON'T WANT TO CHANGE YOU
LIKE WELL WHAT DO WE DO?
KNOW WE WANT ALL OUR FOR TO BE
WE DON'T WANT TO CHANGE YOU
TRANSITIONED BUT ALL OUR THREE
KNOW WE WANT ALL OUR FOR TO BE
OR OUR TWO SHOULD NOT BE WE'RE
TRANSITIONED BUT ALL OUR THREE
KIND OF ENHANCING THOSE
OR OUR TWO SHOULD NOT BE WE'RE
HISTORIC DIFFERENCES AND
KIND OF ENHANCING THOSE
EXCLUSIONARY POLICIES AND SO
HISTORIC DIFFERENCES AND
WITH WHAT CAME FROM COUNCIL
EXCLUSIONARY POLICIES AND SO
WHICH IS LIKE OH WE'RE GOING TO
WITH WHAT CAME FROM COUNCIL
LIMIT RESIDENTIAL WHICH I AGREE
WHICH IS LIKE OH WE'RE GOING TO
FROM SOME OF THE LETTERS THAT
LIMIT RESIDENTIAL WHICH I AGREE
CAME IN IS WHY ARE WE CALLING
FROM SOME OF THE LETTERS THAT
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL AND
CAME IN IS WHY ARE WE CALLING
TRANSITION TRANSITION WHEN
RESIDENTIAL RESIDENTIAL AND
ACTUALLY MORE PEOPLE WILL
TRANSITION TRANSITION WHEN
PROBABLY LIVE IN TRANSITION AND
ACTUALLY MORE PEOPLE WILL
HUB THAN IN RESIDENTIAL
THAT
THAT WE ARE CONTINUING AND
ACTUALLY INCREASING THE
DIFFERENCES BECAUSE RIGHT NOW
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LIKE AN
HOUR FOR AND AN HOUR ONE MOVING
FORWARD WE'RE TALKING ABOUT THE
DIFFERENCE BETWEEN A
RESIDENTIAL AND TRANSITION.
THOSE DIFFERENCES ARE ACTUALLY
GREATER AND THOSE ARE OFTEN
BASED ON HISTORIC EXCLUSIONARY
POLICIES.
SO IT'S NOT AN IT'S IT'S LATE
IN THE PROCESS TO SAY ANYTHING
LIKE I MEAN WE'RE NOT GOING TO
JUST THROW OUT EXISTING ZONING
AND START FROM SCRATCH.
BUT I THINK THAT WE NEED TO BE
CAREFUL OF SAYING WELL, THIS
NEIGHBORHOOD DOESN'T HAVE THESE
BUILDINGS, THEREFORE IT
SHOULDN'T HAVE THESE BUILDINGS
IS IS KIND OF WHAT WE CAME INTO
THIS NOT TO DO AND SO SO I
WORRY THAT IF WE'RE WE'RE
SPLITTING RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENTIAL INTO ALL THESE
CATEGORIES BUT WE'RE NOT
SPLITTING IN TRANSITION INTO
CATEGORIES OR MAYBE WE ARE
SPLIT IN TRANSITION INTO OUR
FOUR AND OUR THREE.
WE'RE JUST KIND OF GETTING BACK
TO WHERE WE STARTED AND SO
FORTH IN TRANSITION.
WELL OUR FOUR IS IN TRANSITION.
I OR THINK I THINK THAT'S ONE
OF THE STUMBLING BLOCKS.
>> I MEAN MOST OF THE OUR
FORCES ARE IN TRANSITION.
I THINK.
RIGHT.
THERE'S SOME OF THOSE ARE
FORCES THAT'S DEVELOPING THAT I
THINK ADOPTING SO PART OF THE
REASON I THINK WE'RE HAVING
THOSE CONVERSATIONS BECAUSE WE
MAY ESTABLISH IT'S OWN MADE
SOME JUDGMENTS SO I REALLY
APPRECIATE A LOT OF WHAT YOU'RE
SAYING COMING FROM OTHER
PEOPLE.
I GUESS I JUST WANT TO I ALSO
WANT TO STATE THE OBVIOUS IS
THAT I I DON'T HAVE A SURVEY
BUT I WOULD VENTURE GUESS THAT
MANY, MANY COMPREHENSIVE PLANS
THAT ARE BEING CONSIDERED BY
COMMUNITIES ACROSS THE STATE IN
THIS COUNTRY ARE VERY STATUS
QUO.
YES.
THEY'RE VERY THEY'RE PROBABLY
MORE DEPENDENT ON A PATCHWORK
OF ZONING THAN FUTURE LAND USE
MAPPING HAS BEEN PRESENTED TO
YOU AND SO AND I JUST WANT TO
ACKNOWLEDGE INHERENT IN US
TAKING THIS APPROACH TO REALLY
TRY TO SIMPLIFY IT.
>> I I THINK WE ARE MAKING SOME
STEPS TOWARDS TRYING TO BREAK
DOWN SOME SOME EXCLUSIONARY
LINES BECAUSE THAT'S THAT'S THE
PATCHWORK OF ZONING THAT WE'VE
HAD FOR A LONG TIME AND I
APPRECIATE COMMISSIONER WYTCHES
BUT NEEDLING ME ON THIS YOU
KNOW, WHETHER IT'S THREE
DISTRICTS ARE 10 DISTRICTS,
THAT'S ALL THAT'S BREAKING DOWN
A LOT OF BOUNDARIES, LITERAL
BOUNDARIES FROM THIRTY OR
ZONING DISTRICTS WHICH I THINK
WE WILL WE WILL GET I DON'T
KNOW WHAT THAT NUMBER IS BUT I
BUT BECAUSE WE ARE TRYING TO
SORT OF START A NEW WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO UNLESS WE GO BACK TO
A VERY PATCHWORK WE'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO MAKE SOME JUDGMENTS
LIKE THAT.
AND I THINK TO YOUR POINT I
THINK YOU MIGHT WE NEED WELL
IT'S JUST MAKE A TRANSITION AND
THAT'S YOU KNOW, YOU HEARD SOME
SOME PERSPECTIVES ON THAT WELL
OR NOT OR RESIDENTIAL BUT BUT
BECAUSE WE ARE BECAUSE WE'RE
TAKING SOME BIG SWINGS AT THAT
IF WE ARE TO DO IN RESIDENTIAL
FOLLOW SOME OF THE WAY THAT
THAT'S EVOLVED, I THINK IT'S
CREATING SOME LIMITATIONS.
AND SO THAT'S WHY I THINK THAT
THERE'S SPACE FOR MAYBE THERE'S
A DIFFERENT RESIDENTIAL OR
ANOTHER LAYER OF RESIDENTIAL
THAT SAYS HEY, ALL THIS STUFF
WE'VE BEEN TALKING ABOUT WITH
THREE STORIES OR TRIBAL X'S OR
WHATEVER, THAT'S STILL REALLY
APPROPRIATE FOR ONE IN TWO
FAMILIES AREAS OR SOME OTHER
GEOGRAPHY FRANKLY.
BUT THERE ARE OTHER THINGS THAT
MIGHT BE APPROPRIATE FOR
RESIDENTIAL THE HIGHER DENSITY
AT A DIFFERENT TYPOLOGY THAT
MIGHT FALL SHORT OF WHAT EIGHT
STORIES, THREE STORIES
TRANSITIONS MIGHT EVENTUALLY
EVOLVE IN TRANSITION DISTRICT
AND SO SO I APPRECIATE THAT I I
GUESS THE THE THE POINT I WANT
TO GET ACROSS IS I THINK MAKING
A LOT OF STEPS TOWARDS TRYING
TO FIX SOME OF THAT.
THESE I THINK ARE SOME
PARTICULARLY STICKY CHALLENGING
PLACES TO TRY TO FIGURE THAT
OUT BECAUSE BECAUSE OF THAT
HISTORY OF PATCHWORK AND IT'D
BE EASY IF WE WENT BACK TO THAT
BENCHMARK.
BUT YOU NOBODY WANTS TO DO IT
EASY.
WE WANT TO DO RIGHT.
I THINK I WAS I WAS HUNG UP ON
SOME OF THESE AREAS BEFORE I
THINK AFTER I LOOKED AT IT
AGAIN I DON'T THINK I AM I LIKE
THE STAFF RECOMMENDATION.
COUNCIL MEMBER TO YOUR EARLIER
POINT NOT THAT YOU WERE
SUPPORTING WHAT I'M ABOUT TO
SAY BUT I I THOUGHT THAT WITH
THE CHANGE TO RESIDENTIAL WE
JUST EXECUTED WHEN WE APPROVED
THE THE MEMO MAKING THE CHANGE
THE COUNCIL DIRECTED THERE'S
ALREADY THE FLEXIBILITY ON THE
UNITS TO ACCOUNT FOR VARIATIONS
WITHIN OUR THREE SUCH THAT WE
COULD MAKE THE R3 PATCHES THAT
WE WERE STRUGGLING WITH
RESIDENTIAL WITHOUT CREATING A
RECOMMENDED NON CONFORMANCE TO
WHAT'S BUILT AND DO THE SAME
THING WITH THE OTHER FOUR
DISTRICTS THAT WE WERE
STRUGGLING STRUGGLING WITH TO
MOVE THEM TO TRANSITION.
WE CAN'T MOVE.
THOSE ARE FOR DISTRICTS TO
RESIDENTIAL BECAUSE OF THE HIGH
CAP.
BUT I I'M TRYING TO GET BACK TO
WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO HERE
WHICH IS I MEAN WE SAY
COUNCIL'S DIRECTION NOW WE KNOW
THIS IS NOT A ZONING MAP.
THIS IS A CITY WIDE VISION.
THESE DISTRICTS ARE GOING TO
HAVE TO BE MADE AND ADJUSTED
AND TWEAKED.
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP
REPRESENTS THE CITY'S VALUES IN
PHYSICAL FORM.
IT'S A GUIDING VISION, NOT A
RIGID MANDATE.
I I'D LIKE TO RATHER THAN
TACKLE EVERY ONE OF THESE ARE
LIKE CRACK OPEN RESIDENTIAL AND
REDO IT.
I THINK THE DISTRICTS THAT NOT
DISTRICTS THE AREAS THAT WE'VE
THOUGHT ABOUT HERE ARE
PERFECTLY APPROPRIATE TO USE IN
THESE AREAS AND IF THERE ARE
SPECIFIC ONES THAT WE ARE
REALLY STRUGGLING WITH, I'M
FINE DISCUSSING THEM.
BUT AS A GENERAL MATTER I THINK
I'M AT OUR THREE NEEDS TO GO TO
RESIDENTIAL.
>> OUR FOUR NEEDS TO GO TO
TRANSITION.
CAN YOU CLARIFY WHEN YOU SAID
LIKE STEPS RECOMMENDATION WHICH
WHICH SO THE AT THE TOP THEY
GAVE AN EXAMPLE OF WHAT THEY
MEANT BY TIERED AND I WAS
COMPARING THAT AGAINST THE
LANGUAGE THAT WE JUST AGREED TO
PUT INTO THE PLAN AT COUNCIL'S
DIRECTION.
IF I FIND IT HERE I'LL READ IT.
THE RECOMMENDATION WAS AND I'M
SORRY I FIND IT MODIFYING
RESIDENTIAL QUOTE VIA ZONING
DISTRICTS THAT LIMIT HOUSING TO
A MAXIMUM OF TRIBAL TAXES IN
SOME AREAS AND OTHER ZONING
DISTRICTS THAT PROVIDE GREATER
HOUSING QUANTITY THROUGH
GREATER PHYSICAL POTENTIAL
WITHOUT ACCOUNT LIMITATIONS AND
OTHER GEOGRAPHIES.
SO GOING BACK TO THE REQUEST
THAT WE LIMIT RESIDENTIAL TO
DUPLEXES AND TRIPLEX IS AND BUT
ALLOW FOR LARGER BUILDING
TYPOLOGIES WHERE IT'S
APPROPRIATE THAT FEELS LIKE AND
I THINK COUNCIL MEMBER DISHES
RESPONSE THAT IS THAT'S KIND
OF VAGUE.
THAT DOESN'T PROVIDE FOLKS WITH
A LOT OF CERTAINTY ABOUT WHAT
WE MEAN AND THAT'S VERY CONTEXT
SPECIFIC AND VERY KICK THE CAN
AND I ACCEPT THAT.
BUT I THINK THIS IS A KICK THE
CAN KIND OF DOCUMENT WE ARE
KICKING THE CAN WE'RE KICKING
THE CAN IS IN A LOT OF THESE
ISSUES AND IN TERMS OF STAYING
ON SCHEDULE, DOING A DOCUMENT
THAT WE AGREE WITH, IT FEELS
LIKE WE'RE GETTING HUNG UP ON
THESE SORT OF CASES WHEN WE
CREATE A MAP THAT THE
HEURISTICS THAT STAFF USED TO
PAINT THE MAP WE SUPPORT AND
OUT OF A SENSE OF FIDELITY TO
THE FACT OF BEING A GUIDANCE
DOCUMENT THAT IS GENERAL THAT
IS NOT RIGID, THAT IS SUPPOSED
TO BE INHERENTLY A LITTLE FUZZY
AND EXECUTED VIEWSONIC I'M MORE
THAN I WAS A COUPLE OF WEEKS
AGO WITH MOVING TO SORT
OF LET'S MOVE ALL OF THESE THAT
WE FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH OUR
THREE THAT ARE THREE SHOULD GO
TO RESIDENTIAL AND OUR FORCE GO
TO TRANSITION IF THERE ARE
REALLY, REALLY HAIRY CASES THAT
FOLKS HAVE SPECIAL PROBLEMS
WITH THEN WE CAN TACKLE THOSE
ON A ONE OFF BASIS.
>> SO YOU'RE NOT TRYING TO TEAR
THE RESIDENTIAL LAND JUST
CATEGORY OR ANY TO DO EXACTLY
WHAT YOU JUST SAID NOT WITH ANY
MORE CHANGES THAN WHAT COUNCILS
ALREADY DIRECTED US TO MAKE AND
THAT WE'VE ALREADY APPROVED TO
MAKE IT
.
I THINK IN PRINCIPLE THAT MAKES
SENSE TO ME AND I WOULD LIKE TO
LOOK AGAIN AT SOME OF LIKE IF
WE COULD QUICKLY FLIP THROUGH
THE DECKS THE OTHER THINGS THAT
WE HAVEN'T TALKED ABOUT YET AND
RESOLVED TO SEE IF IF I CONCUR
WITH THAT GENERALLY SOME
OF WHICH MIGHT HAVE SOME
CONCERNS ABOUT PONTIAC TRAILOR
THEREFORE I IT'S A IT'S A
MISMATCH.
IT'S OUR ONE RIGHT.
NO SOMETIMES OUR IS IT OUR SITE
ONE SO THIS IS LIKE ONE AND SO
ARE YOU SUGGESTING THAT WE USE
THAT BECAUSE THAT'S A REALLY
HARD CASE OR DO WE PUNT ON SITE
ONE LIKE WE DID LAST TIME AND
DO THAT AT THE VERY END SO FAR
FOR DOING IT AT THE VERY WE
CONFRONT ON THAT AND THEN ALSO
WE HAVE TO DO AAGOT BUT SO I
YES, I DO HAVE AN ISSUE WITH
THAT ONE SIMPLY BECAUSE THERE
IS NO IT IS SO FAR AWAY
MISSISSIPPI FOR ANY TRAFFIC
RELIEF THAT I WOULD JUST BE
VERY I CAN IMAGINE A LOT
OF ANXIETY ABOUT THAT FROM
PEOPLE WHO LIVE THERE EVEN
THOUGH NOTHING WILL CHANGE BUT
BUT THERE WOULD BE SOME OTHER
PLACES ON HERE LIKE 14 AND 15
AND SO I AM TALKING ABOUT LIKE
YEAH.
AND I THINK 14 MIGHT BE A
LITTLE BETTER THAN 15 OR A
LITTLE BIT BUT I HAVE A LITTLE
HARD TIME PICTURING THESE.
BUT 14 I CAN REALLY SEE 14 IS A
KIND OF LAYOUT THAT I HAVE A
HARD TIME
JUSTIFYING OR NOT
JUSTIFYING BUT CONCEPTUALIZING
AS TRANSITION SIMPLY BECAUSE IT
DOESN'T GO ANYWHERE FROM YOU
GUYS KNOW WHAT I MEANT?
SO CAN YOU PUT IT INTO WORDS
BECAUSE I'VE LOST IT.
>> I'M TRYING TO FIGURE OUT
WHERE THIS IT'S NOT OR A HUB.
THIS IS A SITE I NEEDED TO
PARIS IT'S I REMEMBER THIS NOW.
>> YEAH.
YEAH.
SO YEAH IT IF THIS WERE TO AND
I DON'T KNOW I YOU KNOW I DON'T
KNOW HEIGHT LIMITS INTIMATELY
HERE LIKE HOW DENSE THIS IS BUT
WHAT IF IF WE IF WE PUT THIS
INTO RESIDENTIAL WITH SORT
OF LIKE OUR NEW RULES
OF DEPENDING ON THE LOCATION
THEY COULD BE TALLER THAN
WHATEVER MORE THAN THREE UNITS
WOULD IT STILL FIT IN THERE?
>> THAT'S WHAT I WAS JUST GOING
TO LOOK AT IN TERMS OF WHAT ITS
HEIGHT IS BECAUSE THE HEIGHT IS
THE IS THE LIMIT.
IT'S NOT JUST THE HEIGHT.
IT'S ALSO THE FACT THAT YOU
THINGS ARE MORE UNITS AND THEY
DON'T HAVE A BUILDING FORM THAT
LOOKS LIKE A ROW HOUSE OR
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
IF IT WAS LIKE REDESIGNED OR WE
GET THE SAME AMOUNT OF LIKE
DENSITY THAT HAS NOW EVEN IF
IT'S A DIFFERENT FORM, IF WE
PUT IT INTO RESIDENTIAL WITH
OUR CAVEAT I'M WITH OUR CAVEAT
IF WE IF WE REALLY TAKE THE
CAVEAT SERIOUSLY THAT WE'RE IN
OUR EYES BIGGER RIGHT WHERE
THEY'RE ALREADY BIGGER.
YES.
SHE'S BECAUSE I YEAH.
I MEAN LIKE RANDOM LITTLE
POCKETS OF OUR FLOOR PROBABLY
DON'T MAKE SENSE TRANSITION IF
THEY'RE SORT OF LIKE ISLANDS
I'D RATHER MAKE A POCKET
OF WEIRD TRANSITION RECOMMEND
LIKE A RECOMMEND A CATEGORY
THAT WILL MAKE THE HEIGHT THAT
ALREADY EXIST IN THAT AREA
NONCONFORMING.
>> I DON'T THINK IT'S THE
HEIGHT.
I THINK IT'S PROBABLY TWO
STORIES.
I THINK IT'S ACTUALLY THE
BUILDING FORM SHE'S FOR THIS
PARTICULAR YEAH.
YOU HAVE TO YOU MR. LEINERT YOU
HAVE YOUR IS IT POSSIBLE THAT
THESE AREAS ARE THE OR THE
DIRECTION THAT YOU ADOPTED BUT
RIGHT NOW THE RESIDENTIAL
CATEGORY HAS IDENTIFIED THAT
THERE SHOULD BE AREAS WHERE IT
IS EASY AND OUR REGULATIONS
SUPPORT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF TRIBAL ACCESS AND THERE WAS
CONVERSATION ABOUT IS THAT A
FLAW OR IS THAT A LIMIT?
AND IF IT'S A FLAW THAT MEANS
THE RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY MORE
BROADLY MIGHT HAVE ANOTHER
ASPECT TO IT THAT IS STILL PART
OF THE RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY BUT
IT IS NOT LIMITED IN UNITS.
IT IS MORE AKIN TO WHAT YOU ARE
DISTRICT THE RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT WAS BEFORE THE
COMMISSION STARTED RESPONDING
TO CITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS AND
SO IT I WOULD SUGGEST THAT OUR
THREE OR FOUR MIGHT WELL THAT
DISTRICT MIGHT WELL BE ABLE TO
TO BE CRAFTED IN A WAY THAT IS
GOING TO BE EXPRESSLY MORE
PERMISSIVE THAN THE RESOLUTION
THAT YOU ACTED ON EARLIER AND
WHAT THAT MEANS IS WITH ALL THE
AREAS ON THE RESIDENTIAL MAP ON
THE FUTURE LAND USE MAP,
THERE'S GOING TO BE SOME AREAS
THAT ARE BASICALLY GOING TO BE
REALLY EMPHASIZING PLACES AND
SOME THAT ARE GOING TO BE MUCH
MORE FLEXIBLE, BROAD AND RATHER
THAN BIFURCATING I JUST OFFER
THAT RATHER THAN BIFURCATING
OUR THREE AND OUR FOUR AND ONE
DISTRICT OR ANOTHER.
IS THAT AN APPROPRIATE WAY TO
DO IT?
IF THAT'S THE CASE, DOES THE
COMMISSION FEEL THAT IT'S GOING
TO BE IMPORTANT TO DELINEATE
THOSE BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S
PART OF THE TENSION THAT MIGHT
SIMILARLY APPLY TO TRANSITION
DISTRICT.
I CAN SIT HERE AND SAY OH THE
RESIDENTIAL IS GOING TO INCLUDE
EVERYTHING FROM SIX STOREY
APARTMENTS WITH NO LIMITS TO
TRY FLEXORS AND I THINK THAT
THERE MIGHT BE SOME DESIRE TO
HAVE A LITTLE MORE REFINEMENT
OF THAT IF EVEN AT THE POLICY
LEVEL I'M QUITE SORRY I THOUGHT
THE RESIDENT I THOUGHT OUR
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY NOW IS
HARD CAPPED AT THREE STORIES
I'M MISSING SOMETHING I DON'T
THINK IT IS IT IS THERE TRY
WATTS'S SHOULD BE SHOULD BE
EASY AND OTHER UNITS WHERE
APPROPRIATE IT'S ADDITIONAL
BUILDING TYPES MAY BE
APPROPRIATE ALLOWED.
WE'RE CONSISTENT WITH
NEIGHBORHOOD FORM AND SCALE IF
YOU REALLY TAKE THAT PHRASE
SERIOUSLY THAT'S WHERE THEN WE
NEED TO CHANGE THE GRAPHIC
WHERE IT SAYS RESIDENTIAL IS
SMALL SCALE THREE STORIES AND
UNDER IF IF WE'RE GOING TO I
TOOK THE BUILDING TYPE TO BE
YEAH MULTIPLEX'S LIKE SIDE BY
SIDE SIDE BY SIDE BUT BUT
ACTUALLY I SEARCHED FOR THIS
BECAUSE I WAS LIKE HOW ARE WE
TALKING ABOUT THE THREE STOREY
IS IN THE GRAPHIC AS LIKE THAT
IS SO SO I THINK THAT IF WE'RE
GOING TO THINK ABOUT
RESIDENTIAL BEING MORE THAN WE
SHOULD BE EXPANSIVE THIS PART
AS FAR AS I CAN TELL WILDWOOD
IS THE TALLEST OF THE THREE AND
THOSE ARE THREE STORIES MAYBE
THERE'S A BASEMENT, MAYBE OR
WALK OUT BASEMENTS AND SOME
OF THEM.
BUT I THINK THAT THOSE ALL FIT
THIS FORM.
I THINK ACTUALLY IT ALL FITS
THAT THAT THREE STOREY HEIGHT
LIMIT WHICH I THINK IS THE
HARDER CAP, THE LOOSER LANGUAGE
ABOUT FOR ABOUT TYPES OF UNITS
.
I THINK THAT I THINK THAT THAT
WOULD APPLY HERE.
>> THESE ARE NOT TALLER THAN
THREE STORIES.
RIGHT.
AND THREE STORIES AGAIN WE
CHOSE THAT LANGUAGE TO
ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THREE STORY
BUILDING SOMETIMES HAVE A
WORKOUT BASEMENT AND THERE'S
STILL THREE STOREY BUILDINGS OR
SO THERE.
I'M GOOD WITH THAT.
THERE'S STILL GOING TO BE SOME
AREAS THAT I STILL WANT TO TALK
ABOUT BECAUSE THERE'S SOME
ISSUES.
YEAH, BUT IT WAS SOMETHING I'M
SORRY.
CAN I I'M SORRY I HAD PLANNED
SUCH BUILDINGS UP TO THREE
STORIES THREE STORIES IS AN
APPROPRIATE HEIGHT FOR THESE
AREAS.
COUNCIL RESOLUTION NEVER
ATTACKED THAT SO I'M A LITTLE
LOST ON WHERE WE ARE.
WELL, THERE HAS BEEN A THREE
STORIES DOESN'T SAY EXACTLY
YEAH BECAUSE
SO THE ARGUMENT
HERE IS THAT IN THESE POCKETS
WHERE THE HEIGHT ACTUALLY IS IN
THE BALLPARK OF THAT RESIDENT,
IS IT APPROPRIATE CATEGORY TO
APPLY GIVEN THE FLEXIBILITY
THAT EXISTS WITH RESPECT TO THE
THE CHARACTERISTICS IF WE WRITE
WE HAVE A ZONE FOR GREATER
HEIGHT AND DENSITY IN THESE
AREAS WILL RECOMMEND THE DOWN
ZONE AND IT'S NOT HOW MANY
OF THEM ARE ACTUALLY HEIGHT?
>> WELL, BECAUSE A LOT OF THE
DENSE THINGS ARE NOT TALL.
>> THEY'RE SURE.
YEAH, THAT'S BUILT ENVIRONMENT.
IT'S UNQUESTIONABLE THAT OUR
FLOOR ALLOWS FOR HIGHER THAN
THAN RESIDENTIAL ALLOWS.
SO WE WOULD BE RECOMMENDING A
DOWN ZONING FOR ALL OF THESE
POCKETS GIVEN IT WOULD BE A
DOWN ZONING FROM WHAT MOST
OF THEM DON'T CURRENTLY REALIZE
THAT IS CORRECT.
GOT IT.
BUT THEY DON'T CURRENTLY
REALIZE IT.
GOT IT.
>> SO IT WOULD BE A DOWN ZONING
FROM THE PAPER AND I DON'T
KNOW.
YEAH, SO I DON'T THINK I'M
GONNA SUPPORT THAT.
>> I DON'T THINK THAT'S THE
RIGHT POLICY AND I I'M JUST
GOING TO I'LL BE A VOTE AGAINST
THAT FOR ANY BUT ANY OF THESE
CORRIDORS THAT WE DO THAT I CAN
I CAN I DO A LITTLE BIT WE WERE
GOING THROUGH AND SO I
UNDERSTOOD THE LOGIC OF IS A
FIRST CUT TAKING THE R THREE IN
OUR FORCE AND PUTTING THEM INTO
TRANSITION IN OUR ONE IN OUR TO
CAPTAIN RESIDENTIAL AND I
UNDERSTAND THE DESIRE THE
REQUEST WE GOT FROM CITY
COUNCIL TO LIMIT STORIES IN
RESIDENTIAL RESPONDING
PRIMARILY TO THE R ONE AND TWO
RESIDENTIAL FOLKS WHO DON'T
WANT TO SEE RADICAL CHANGE FROM
WHAT THEY CURRENTLY HAVE THE
REALITY IS THOUGH BECAUSE
OF THESE POCKETS WHERE THERE IS
MORE DENSE DEVELOPMENT THAT
EXISTS WITHIN RESIDENTIAL
CATEGORIES WE WOULD BOX
OURSELVES INTO EFFECTIVELY
DOWNS.
I MEAN BUT I DON'T THINK WE
NEED TO GO THERE AND I THINK WE
CAN STILL ACCOMMODATE WHAT CITY
COUNCIL IS ASKING US TO DO AND
I DON'T THINK WE NEED TO DO IT
BY FORMALLY ANNOUNCING TIERS IF
WE ADDED LANGUAGE TO SAY
RESIDENTIAL AREA WHERE WE WERE
REALLY STRUGGLING IS WHERE IT
REALLY DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
PUT THIS PIECE OF RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTY IN THE TRANSITION
BECAUSE IT'S NOT CLOSE TO A
QUARTER OR ANYTHING EVEN THOUGH
IT'S ALREADY BUILT OUT MORE
DENSELY THAN WHAT AN HOUR TWO
OR ONE WOULD ALLOW.
SO WHY AND THIS IS A PLAN
POLICY DOCUMENT.
IT'S NOT A ZONING CODE .
I THINK FIND THE FAIRNESS HERE
IS THAT PERFORMANCE
CONSIDERATIONS FOR RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICTS NORMALLY BUILDINGS UP
TO THREE STORIES UNLESS
EXISTING DEVELOPMENT IS ALREADY
BUILT OUT MORE DENSELY AND THEN
FOLLOWING ALONG THOSE LINES AND
THEN WE'RE KEEPING WE'RE NOT
CREATING FORMAL TEARS.
WE'RE RECOGNIZING THAT SOME
RESIDENTIAL AREAS HAVE ALREADY
BUILT UP MORE DENSELY.
WE'RE NOT GOING TO FORCE THEM
TO SOMEHOW DOWNTOWN BUT WE'RE
NOT FORCING THAT TYPOLOGY INTO
EVERYTHING ELSE THAT'S
RESIDENTIAL.
RIGHT.
SO CAN'T WE JUST FIND THAT
FENCE
, THAT DESCRIPTION OF THE
FORM AND CONSIDERATION AND NOT
DO IT THROUGH SOME KIND OF A
FORMAL TERING AND RECOGNIZE
THERE ARE PLACES ARE
RESIDENTIAL THAT ARE ALREADY
MORE DENSE THAN ARE ONE AND TWO
AND THAT'S FINE.
>> WE'RE NOT GOING TO DUMP ON
THEM.
SO WHAT I'M GETTING AT I DO I
DON'T THINK WE NEED TO OVER
OVER FINE FOR WHAT WE'RE TRYING
TO DO WITH WHERE THE PLAN IS
AND THEN AND THEN WE WOULD FEEL
MORE COMFORTABLE IN THOSE
PLACES.
WE WERE STRUGGLING WITH IT.
IF WE FOLLOW OUR LOGIC THERE
SHOULD BE TRANSITION BUT IT'S
REALLY NOT A TRANSITION.
IT SHOULD STAY IN RESIDENTIAL.
OK, THAT'S FINE BECAUSE
RESIDENTIAL CAN ALLOW FOR MORE
DENSE DEVELOPMENT THAN WHAT IS
IN AN HOUR OR AN HOUR OR TWO IF
IT ALREADY EXISTS AND I REALLY
DO THINK WE NEED TO RENAME IT
FOR THE REASON THAT YOU SAID
AND I'M UNCOMFORTABLE AS I
THINK IT THROUGH AND AS WE TALK
ABOUT IT BECAUSE TRANSITION IS
RESIDENTIAL.
IT IS A PLACE WHERE PEOPLE WILL
LIVE AND SO I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
AND WILL LIVE IN THE HOME TOO.
YES.
YES, ABSOLUTELY RIGHT.
WHICH IS WHY THE RESIDENTIAL
CATEGORY NEEDS TO HAVE A NEW
NAME BECAUSE THERE'S
RESIDENTIAL IN ALL OF OUR
THINGS.
>> YOU WANT TO RENAME
RESIDENTIAL?
I DO.
AND YOU DON'T LIKE DISTRICTS
RIGHT?
YOU DON'T HAVE A DISTRICT
BECAUSE YOU WANT TO GO.
I JUST WANT CATHERINE TO SPEAK
IN TERMS OF R&D CATEGORIES
BECAUSE IT'S NOT A ZONING
DOCUMENT IS WHAT'S THE
SUGGESTION THAT RESIDENTIAL IN
THIS AREA IS JUST IN ITS
CURRENT STATE PROVIDES FOR
LIMITED COMMERCIAL
OPPORTUNITIES?
THE TRANSITION ZONE AS WE
TALKED ABOUT THE HUB ZONE
PROVIDE A VERY WIDE RANGING
FLEXIBLE HE USES.
SO I DO THINK THAT THERE IS
REASON TO CALL IT RESIDENTIAL
BECAUSE THAT IS THE PRIMARY USE
IN THAT IT'S NOT TO SAY THAT
THERE AREN'T RESIDENTIAL USES
IN THE TRANSITION DISTRICT OR
IN THE HUB DISTRICT.
THOSE DISTRICTS WILL HAVE
RESIDENTIAL USES.
THEY WILL ALSO PROVIDE A
GREATER ARRAY OF OTHER POSSIBLE
USES.
IF I HAD TO PREDICT WITHIN THE
RESIDENTIAL CURRENT RESIDENTIAL
AREAS OF THE MAP, WELL I
SUPPOSE IT WOULD BE COMPLETELY
ABSURD TO RENAME IT LIMITED
COMMERCIAL BUT I GUESS I WAS
GOING TO SUGGEST FLECK'S
BECAUSE LIKE HONESTLY IT'S LIKE
ALL OF THE MILKSOP, YOU KNOW?
I MEAN I'M DRIVING IN
RESIDENTIAL YOU KNOW I WAS
GOING TO RENAME TRANSITION NO,
NO, NO.
I DON'T WANT TO I LIKE BUT
WE'RE GOING TO GET SOME NAMES
OUT THERE RIGHT NOW, OK?
>> ALL RIGHT.
SO WELL I THINK THERE IS AN AND
THERE IS A NUANCE THAT WE ARE
TRYING TO CREATE AROUND WHAT IT
MEANS FOR EXISTING DENSER
TYPOLOGIES MOST OF WHICH ARE
NOT TALLER BUT THEY COULD BE
THEN THREE STORIES TO TO BE
APPROPRIATELY CATEGORIZED IN
THE TERMS OF THIS LAND USE MAP
GIVEN THE LIMIT THE COUNCIL
PLACED ON RESIDENTIAL AREAS
THAT ARE CURRENTLY ZONED FOR
ONE OR TWO AND DID NOT MEAN
THAT TO APPLY BROADLY TO ALL
CURRENTLY ZONED RESIDENTIAL
PROPERTIES IN THE CITY.
SO THE LANGUAGE WE INSERTED
ADDITIONALLY AS PART
OF ALIGNING ZONING WITH LAND
USE CATEGORIES EXISTING HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS THE UDC SHOULD BE
REVIEWED AND RECONSIDERED FOR
REMOVAL IN THE RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT OR THREE STORY FORM IS
INTENDED TO BE THE GENERAL
MAXIMUM.
DID YOU WRITE THAT?
I DID AND WE VOTED TO APPROVE
IT.
WHEN WAS THAT?
OH YOU THINK OH THAT'S AN
AMENDMENT I'M SO THE COUNCIL
APPROVED TO CHANGE A
RECOMMENDATION THAT HEIGHT
EXCEPTIONS CURRENTLY PROVIDED
FOR THE UDC BE REMOVED FROM THE
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY AND THIS
IS I UNDERSTAND TO BE IN
RESPONSE TO ARGUMENTS THAT WELL
THEY SAID THREE STORIES BUT
THEY COULD GET EXCEPTIONS TO
THREE STORIES AND THIS WAS ALL
TO ZAP THAT OUT OF OUR DOCUMENT
.
NO, EXACTLY.
THAT'S FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY
THREE STORY STUFF IS HARD LIKE
IT'S INTENDED TO BE A HARD CAP.
THAT'S WHY ONE FOR OUR ONE IN
TWO FOR OUR LAND, FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, FOR THE
LOW FOR THE RESIDENTIAL THE
CATEGORY THAT WERE FOR THE
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY AS DEFINED
IN THIS VERSION OF THE PLAN.
>> YES.
WHICH IS THE FORMER ARE ONE IN
OUR TWO BUT WE DON'T WANT IT TO
BE WE WANT IT TO BE MORE THAN
THAT.
>> OH, I KNOW WE'RE STUCK.
>> THANKS COUNCIL.
>> WOULD IT BE A I MEAN WOULD
IT BE HELPFUL?
YES.
FOR THE COMMISSION TO HAVE I
THINK I THINK PART OF THE
REASON THAT THE PLANNING
COMMISSION WAS RESPONDING TO
ACTS FROM THE CITY COUNCIL IS
THIS AMBIGUOUS THAT
COMMISSIONER DESH WAS TALKING
ABOUT IN THE IN THIS CASE THE
RESIDENTIAL AREAS AND I THINK I
DO THINK THAT A LOT OF THAT IS
THIS IS BECAUSE WE MAY HAVE A
SINGLE COLOR ON THE MAP AND
IT'S BROADLY APPLIED TO BOTH
CURRENTLY MULTIFAMILY AREAS AND
SINGLE AREAS AND I I AGAIN
UNDERSTAND THE RESOLUTION FROM
COUNCIL NOT TO BE AN ABSOLUTE
CAP ON TRIFECTAS IN THE
RESIDENTIAL COLOR IN THE MAP
BUT I DO TAKE FROM IT LARGELY
TRIBALISTS CAP ON OUR ONE AND
TWO AREAS TRADITIONALLY OF AN
AREA OF OF ARC OF THE FUTURE
LAND USE MAP AND SO WHAT
HELPFUL FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION TO HAVE A
DESCRIPTION OF HOW BECAUSE
YOU'RE MISSING YOU'RE MISSING
THE OTHER HALF OF A RESIDENTIAL
DISTRICT THAT IS NOT BEING
CONSTRAINED, WOULD IT BE
HELPFUL TO HAVE A DESCRIPTION
THAT THAT IS PERHAPS NOT A
THREE STORY CAP BUT A FIVE
STORY CAP BECAUSE THAT IS A
MAYBE MAYBE THAT'S A BUILDING
CODE ADJACENT THRESHOLD WHERE A
LOT OF HOUSING GETS BUILT IN
THIS COUNTRY AND IT IS STILL
PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL BUT IT IS
ADDING ANOTHER DESCRIPTION TO
THAT BROAD CATEGORY ON THE MAP
THAT'S MAYBE A TIER OR MAYBE
IT'S A NEW COLOR.
MAYBE IT'S RESIDENTIAL AND
RESIDENTIAL TOO.
BUT WOULD IT BE HELPFUL FOR
THIS EXERCISE FOR US TO JUST
DRAFT SOMETHING FOR YOU TO BE
ABLE TO SEE HOW THAT MIGHT
RELATE TO A MAP OF JUST WHAT
WOULD THAT BE BASED ON EXISTING
FOR?
I WOULD FAIR QUESTION.
I WOULD PROBABLY START WITH THE
SOME AGGREGATION OF OUR CURRENT
MULTIFAMILY ZONING DISTRICT
REGULATIONS AND I WOULD
PROBABLY TRY TO FIND A MIDDLE
GROUND THAT WOULD ACCOMMODATE A
LOT PHYSICALLY THE BUILT
ENVIRONMENT IN THOSE DISTRICTS
THAT EXIST TODAY.
SO LIKE I TALKED ABOUT, OUR
FOURIE TODAY HAS AN UNLIMITED
HEIGHT LIMIT.
MOST OF OUR FRIENDS PROBABLY
ARE OF A COMPARABLE SCALE AND I
WOULD PROBABLY LOOK AT THOSE
DISTRICTS IN OUR BUILDING THE
THE DEVELOPMENT HAPPENS AND I
WOULD JUST START WITH A
REGULATORY DESCRIPTION THAT
MIGHT ACCOMMODATE THOSE.
I THINK IT WOULD HAVE SOME DOWN
ZONING ON PAPER OR THAT'S A
REAL DOWN ZONING BECAUSE THERE
WE HAVE AREAS IN THE CITY THAT
HAVE UNREALIZED POTENTIAL MAYBE
AMONG THOSE IT MIGHT NOT BE AS
WIDE AS WE THINK BECAUSE OF OUR
OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS AND
OTHER THINGS BUT IT WOULD ALSO
LIKELY NOT BE LIMITED TO THREE
STORIES.
RIGHT.
THERE WOULD ALSO LIKELY NOT BE
LIMITED TO A TRIPLEX RIGHT NOW
.
SO IT'S A GOOD QUESTION BUT I
WOULD PROBABLY START WITH OUR
CURRENT MULTIFAMILY ZONING AND
THINK ABOUT HOW WE WOULD
DESCRIBE THAT BROADLY TO BE
SORT OF LIKE THE EXERCISE
OF OUR SINGLE FAMILY LIKE
WHAT'S THE SWEET SPOT?
>> IT MIGHT NOT BE EVERYTHING
THAT WE HAVE THE FULL RANGE
OF OPTIONS NOW BUT IT'S GOING
TO INCORPORATE A LOT OF OUR
OPTIONS RIGHT NOW WHICH IS JUST
AN EXERCISE JUST TO AND I'M I
MIGHT GO DOWN IN FLAMES.
I'M NOT GOING TO MAKE A STRAW
POLL JUST GIVEN THAT TO LOVE
AND TO CLASSIFY AMONG THE
UNRESOLVED SITES.
SO THERE'S LOOKS LIKE THERE'S
10 SLIDES OF TEN SITES.
THAT'S NOT HOW THEY'RE NAMED.
OBVIOUSLY SOME OF THESE ARE AG
RIGHT.
THE GOLF COURSES AND I'M NOT
TALKING ABOUT THE GOLF COURSE.
SO EVERYTHING THAT'S OUR FOUR
AND OUR THREE.
SO THAT'S AND I'M GOING TO
CARVE OUT SITE ONE AS WELL
WHICH IS THE PLYMOUTH SORRY
PONTIAC TRAIL THAT WE WANT TO
TALK ABOUT AND THE NEW ONE 17
THAT WAS ADDED AND THEN I FROM
THE DISCUSSION TONIGHT I WANT
TO TALK ABOUT UPLAND AND THERE
ARE A COUPLE OF PLACES ON THE
MAP WHERE OUR ONES ARE IN
TRANSITION AND I'M A LITTLE BIT
WORRIED ABOUT THOSE SO WE CAN
LET ME JUST LIST THEM OFF SO MY
EMOTIONS CLEAR.
SO SITE SEVENTEEN THEY ARE FOR
A SITE SIXTEEN THAT LOOKS LIKE
OUR THREE SITE FIFTEEN ARE FOR
A SITE FOURTEEN ARE FOR OUR FOR
OUR FORESE SITE NINE ARE THREE
AND OUR FOR IT LOOKS LIKE OH
YEAH SITE EIGHT WHICH IS OUR
THREE SITES SIX OUR THREE SITE
FIVE WHICH IS OUR FOR A R FOR B
AND OUR THREE AND THOSE ARE THE
SITES THAT
MY MOTION WOULD
APPLY TO ANYTHING THAT'S R
THREE TO RESIDENTIAL ANYTHING
THAT'S R FOR MOVES TO
TRANSITION AND I JUST WANT TO
SEE WHETHER THERE'S SUPPORT TO
DO EXACTLY THAT AT
DISPOSITIONAL SITES IN THAT
WAY.
SO YOU'RE PROPOSING EFFECTIVELY
NOT TO TALK ABOUT ANY OF THOSE?
I'M PROPOSING NOT TO TALK ABOUT
THEM INDIVIDUALLY TO
DISPOSITION ALL OF THEM IN ONE
MOTION STRAW POLL NOT SEVENTEEN
THOUGH.
YES, SEVENTEEN.
OK, I CAN'T VOTE FOR IT.
OK, I JUST WANT TO I JUST WANT
TO MAKE THE MOTION AND SEE
WHERE WE ARE SO WE'LL DO JUST A
FIRST VOTE SO ALL THE
UNRESOLVED EXCEPT FOR SITE ONE
AND THE PROPOSAL IS ANYTHING R
THREE GOES TO RESIDENTIAL IN
NINETEEN R FOUR GOES TO
TRANSITION YOU GOT ALL THOSE IN
FAVOR OPPOSED FLAMES.
WOW THAT WAS YOU DON'T KNOW
WHAT WE'RE DOING.
WELL SOME OF THEM JUST LIKE
JUST LIKE YES THIS IS FINE AND
IT'S SOMEBODY SECOND THAT
MOTION THAT WAS JUST A STRAW
POLL OK ALL RIGHT I DON'T THINK
I DON'T THINK THERE'S A REAL
MOTION OK WAS IT.
NO OK.
HE WAS JUST TESTING US ALL
RIGHT.
SORRY BECAUSE IT'S ELEVEN AT
FIVE AND COULD I MEAN I NEED A
REMINDER ON WHERE TWO AND THREE
THOSE ARE AMONG THE ONES THAT
WERE RESOLVED WHERE THEY GO YOU
TO KEEP SCROLLING.
NO NO NO NO I MEAN WHERE DID WE
PUT THAT DO WE PUT THEM IN
RESIDENTIAL OR TRANSITIONAL.
I DIDN'T I TOOK NOTES ON ALMOST
EVERYTHING LAST MEETING BUT I
MISSED THOSE TWO HAS TO LOOK AT
MY NOT FOR YET BUT IT'LL TAKE I
DON'T I DON'T REMEMBER IN THE
MEANTIME I WILL JUST SAY I
THINK WHERE I'M SITTING RIGHT
NOW I'M NOT OPPOSED TO TALKING
ABOUT TWO DIFFERENT TIERS FOR
RESIDENTIAL.
I LIKE THE IDEA OF VISUALLY
SEEING WHAT MR. PROPOSED IN MAP
FORM KIND OF LOOK HOW BAD
THINGS WOULD LAND AND I'M STILL
I'M CONCERNED AGAIN THAT WE'RE
LIKE SORT OF CHERRY PICKING
THESE AREAS LIKE REALLY
CONCERNED I'M TELLING YOU TO
BECAUSE THERE'S A LOT OF OUR
FOUR AREAS THAT ARE ALL SINGLE
FAMILY HOUSES AND HAVE NEVER
BEEN ANYTHING ELSE.
AND SO IF WE'RE JUST TAKING
THESE BUT THEY'RE LONG
ESTABLISHED OUR FOUR AREAS BUT
LIKE WE'RE JUST SAYING OH THOSE
JUST ALL OF THOSE GO TO
TRANSITION AND I FEEL LIKE
YEAH.
>> I'M SORRY.
DID YEAH.
>> SO IT'S JUST I DON'T LIKE
THESE PARTICULAR ONES WERE
PULLED OUT BUT I DON'T KNOW
THAT THEY'RE THE ONLY ONES.
>> YEAH I'VE BEEN REALLY I'VE
KIND NEVER SURE WHERE THESE
BILLS CAME FROM.
>> THAT'S JUST SORT OF WHERE I
STAND.
IT'S LIKE I WOULD BE INTERESTED
IN SEEING THAT MAP THAT YOU
TALKED ABOUT AND I AM NOT
OPPOSED TO TERING RESIDENTIAL
AND I'M NOT SURE THE BEST PATH
FORWARD.
GO AHEAD.
YES, JUST THE QUESTION WOULD BE
LIKE IF SOMETHING I DISAGREED
WITH AND I PUSHED YEAH YEAH OH
YEAH.
WHO'S THE BOSS IN THIS CASE.
YEAH I'M JUST WONDERING WHAT
DOES THAT PROCESS LOOK LIKE
PUSHING BACK ON CITY COUNCIL.
YEAH BECAUSE THIS IS A MILITANT
GROUP THAT I GUESS CHANGE IT.
I'M JUST I FEEL LIKE WE'RE
PROGRESSING THIS IS REALLY
GOING IN THE WRONG DIRECTION.
I FEEL LIKE PORTERING IS A
COMPROMISE.
>> I I DON'T KNOW IF I AGREE
WITH THAT.
I CAN'T SPEAK FOR THE COUNCIL.
YEAH.
I THINK THAT A LOT OF THE
CONCERN AGAIN HAS BEEN RAISED
BECAUSE PEOPLE SEE A LOT
OF DIVERSITY OF EXPERIENCE IN
THE CATEGORY WE ARE LUMPING
TOGETHER AS RESIDENTIAL ON THE
MAP GAY ARE SIMILAR TO
TRANSITION AND I MAY BE WRONG I
THINK A LOT OF THE CONCERN AND
CONSTRAINT THAT THE COUNCIL HAS
ASKED THE PLANNING COMMISSION
CAN CONSIDER IS FRANKLY MORE
TOWARD TOWARDS TRADITIONAL
SINGLE FAMILY NEIGHBORHOODS
THAN EVERY AREA ON THAT
RESIDENTIAL MAP.
AND SO I I SEE THAT THERE IS AN
OPENING AND WILLINGNESS THE
COUNCIL TO CONSIDER THAT
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY NOT
BROADLY WITH A THREE STOREY CAP
WITH A CAP IN THE AREAS THAT
MAKE A LOT OF LOGICAL SENSE.
SO I I'VE BEEN WRONG A LOT.
YEAH, THAT'S THAT'S THAT'S MY
INSTINCT.
BUT TECHNICALLY YES YOU CAN SAY
NO THIS SHOULD BE THEY HAVE
AGENCY TO SAY NO WE'RE NOT
READY TO DISTRIBUTE THIS.
>> YEAH WE THINK THE PLANNING
COMMISSION MISSED THE MARK ON
THESE THINGS AND THEY'RE GOING
TO TELL YOU THAT YEAH.
SO I WANT TO JUST TRY AGAIN TO
BE CLEAR ABOUT THE WAY THAT
ABOUT THE REASON WHY THE
RESIDENTIAL THING DOESN'T ISN'T
TOTALLY WORKING FOR ME AND THE
TRANSITION.
>> SURE.
IT'S NOT JUST THE NAMES AND
IT'S THAT I HAVE A LOT OF NEW
BUILD IN MY WARD THAT'S DENSE
AND HOW IT'S ACCOMPLISHED IS
NOT THROUGH HEIGHT AND IT'S NOT
GRADED.
IT'S A VERY SUBURBAN STYLE
OF DEVELOPMENT AND SO THINGS
ARE ATTACHED AND HOW THAT HOW
YOU REALIZE THE DENSITY AS YOU
MAKE THINGS SMALLER AND YOU
STICK THEM TOGETHER AND SO SO
WHEN I GO TO OTHER PARTS OF THE
CITY THAT ARE OLDER, THINGS ARE
SMALL, THEY ARE TWO BUT THEY'RE
SEPARATE AND SO IT IS YOU CAN'T
ENVISION GREATER DENSITY THE
SAME WAY IN THOSE TWO KINDS
OF PLACES.
AND WHAT THERE IS IN MY WARD IS
MORE LAWN THAN ANY ONE REALLY
NEEDS ALTHOUGH LOTS OF PEOPLE
ARE ATTACHED TO IT WHICH
SURPRISES ME BUT I NEED TO
LISTEN TO THAT.
BUT IT BECAUSE YOU GET YOU GET
THINGS STUCK TOGETHER, YOU GET
THERE IT'S MUCH MORE DENSE.
>> IT'S VERY DENSE.
RIGHT.
BUT IT'S NOT DENSE BECAUSE IT'S
TALL.
I MEAN SOME OF IT IS TALLER
THAN THE RANCH HOUSES.
SO WHEN RESIDENTS LOOK AT AND
THEY HEAR THIRTY FEET THEY'RE
LIKE EVERYTHING AROUND THIS ONE
STOREY I LIVE IN A IN A
DISTRICT OF RANCH HOUSES AND SO
THEY WOULD FEEL LIKE THE IDEA
THAT SOMEHOW IT WOULD BE DOWN
ZONING THEM TO PUT THEM AT
ANYTHING LESS THAN THREE
STOREYS THEY FEEL LIKE WHAT
THAT'S AN AMAZING INCREASE IN
HEIGHT.
>> AND I DON'T I'M NOT I'M NOT
SAYING THAT THEREFORE I WANT TO
BACK OFF FROM THAT.
I'M JUST SAYING THAT THE WAY
THIS CITY HAS ACCOMPLISHED
DENSITY HAS HAPPENED
DIFFERENTLY AT DIFFERENT TIMES
WHEN IT WAS BUILT AND UNDER
DIFFERENT ZONING REGIMES.
SO WHEN YOU HAD SMALLER PARCELS
YOU ACCOMPLISH DENSITY IN ONE
WAY AND THEN YOU HAD BIGGER
LOFT SIZE MINIMUMS WHICH ARE
TRUE IN LOTS OF WORD ONE AND
LOTS OF WORK TO AND OTHER WORDS
TOO.
BUT THOSE ARE THE ONLY TWO THAT
I REALLY KNOW VERY WELL IN THIS
WAY YOU YOU YOU ACCOMPLISHED
YOU IT'S JUST DIFFERENT AND YOU
DON'T HAVE THROUGH STREETS YOU
DON'T HAVE GRIDS SO THIS IS
WHAT BOTHERS ME ABOUT THE
TRANSITION CATEGORY APPLIED TO
THESE THESE PLACES THAT ARE
LITTLE ISLANDS WITH ONE EXIT.
IT JUST DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO
ME.
I DON'T KNOW.
TRANSITION TO WHAT?
YOU CAN'T GO FROM ONE SIDE TO
THE OTHER, YOU KNOW.
AND SO THAT IS TROUBLING TO ME.
AND THEN YES, THERE VERY
RESIDENTIAL.
IT'S HARD TO IMAGINE THEM
GETTING ANY COMMERCIAL IN THEM
AS MUCH AS I THINK IT WOULD BE
DESIRABLE.
>> SO WHAT SO I LIKE WHAT MR.
LEONARD PROPOSED THINKING ABOUT
WHAT DO THE AIR FORCE LOOK LIKE
AND HOW COULD WE HAVE A PORTION
OF RESIDENTIAL THAT WOULD MEET
OUR DESIRE TO PROVIDE MORE
HOUSING OPPORTUNITY NOT LESS
BUT UNDERSTAND THAT YOU KNOW,
WE GET VERY FOCUSED ON HEIGHT
BUT THAT'S JUST NOT THE THAT'S
NOT ACTUALLY THE MAJOR WAY THAT
THE CITY HAS ACCOMPLISHED
DENSITY.
>> AND I THINK HEIGHT IS WHAT
PEOPLE SEEM TO EXPRESSING THE
MOST CONCERN WITH WHICH MAKES
SENSE AND YOU CAN ACCOMPLISH
DENSITY.
I MEAN I LIVED IN WASHINGTON
DC.
I LIVED IN SAN FRANCISCO.
THEY'RE VERY AREAS OF THE
CITIES WHERE YOU'RE NOT ABOVE
THREE STORIES AND THEY SUPPORT
COMMERCIAL.
IT'S NOT JUST HEIGHT THOUGH TO
PEOPLE WHO ARE FINDING
THEMSELVES IN TRANSITION FROM
OUR FUTURE ARE NOW ENVISIONING
MULTIPLE USES THAT WEREN'T
THERE BEFORE.
RIGHT.
SO MOVING MOVING FROM
RESIDENTIAL PRIMARILY
RESIDENTIAL TO TRANSITION IS
ALSO BROADENING QUITE
CONSIDERABLY MIX OF USES THAT
ARE ALLOWABLE SO AND SO THAT'S
WHY THAT'S WHY I'M PAUSING.
I MEAN WE'RE KIND OF GOING BACK
AND I DON'T KNOW THAT IT MAKES
SENSE TO TRY AND PLAN ON A
NEIGHBORHOOD BASIS FOLKS WANT
TO DO BECAUSE I THINK THAT'S A
SUREFIRE WAY FOR EVERYBODY TO
ZONE EVERYTHING OUT BECAUSE WE
DON'T WANT ANY CHANGE BUT WE'RE
KIND OF HEADING IN DIRECTION
NOT SO MUCH A NEIGHBORHOOD BUT
IN TERMS OF THE CONTEXT
OF WHAT'S ALREADY BUILT AND I'M
REALLY I THINK JULIA'S COMMENT
ABOUT ENTRENCHING BAD PATTERNS
THAT WERE ESTABLISHED IS REALLY
HITTING ME LIKE WE NEED TO BE
MINDFUL OF THAT TOO.
SO I KEEP COMING BACK TO EVEN
AND THE REASON I WAS HESITATING
WHAT JUST KIND OF PROFORMA
MOVING EVERYTHING ARE FOREIGN
TO TRANSITION WHICH WE FINALLY
DID IT MAKES SENSE TO ME TO DO
THAT IN A LONG CORRIDORS WHERE
THAT MAKES SENSE.
IT MAKES LESS SENSE TO ME TO DO
IT FOR ENOUGH FOR A DISTRICT
THAT'S COMPLETELY RESIDENTIAL
JUST BECAUSE IT'S IN OUR FAVOR
AND
WE DON'T WANT TO DOWNSIZE.
YEAH, HIGHER DENSITY
RESIDENTIAL I'M NOT SURE WHERE
THAT LEADS ME IN TERMS OF THIS
DILEMMA BUT YOU KNOW WHY WE'RE
LOOKING AT THE AREAS THAT WE'RE
LOOKING AT IS BECAUSE THEY ARE
ZONED OUT FOR AND THIS MAP THAT
WE'RE LOOKING AT THEM IN LOW
RISE RESIDENTIAL.
THAT'S WHY WE'RE LOOKING AT
THESE BECAUSE THEY WERE DOWN
ZONED AND SO WE'RE BEING ASKED
TO REEVALUATE THAT WAS WHERE I
WAS COMING BACK AROUND TO SAY
WE SHOULD MAKE CLEAR THAT IF
YOU'RE IN RESIDENTIAL BUT
YOU'RE ALREADY MORE DENSELY
BUILT OUT IN WHATEVER FORM IT
IS WE'RE NOT THAT WE DON'T
ENVISION DOWNTOWN IN THOSE
AREAS THEY WILL ALLOW BE
ALLOWED TO CONTINUE TO BE BUILT
OUT AT THAT HIGHER DENSITY
WHICH IS GETTING AWAY FROM A
MANDATE THAT ALL RESIDENTIAL IS
CAPPED.
THREE STORIES I THINK WE NEED
TO ADD NUANCE TO GET FROM.
YEAH, BUT THAT'S NOT THE
MANDATE, RIGHT?
>> THE MANDATE IS THE
RESIDENTIAL AS IT'S DEFINED
WHICH IS ARE ONE OR TWO RIGHT
BY THE BY THE FORMULA THAT WE
ASK STAFF FOR AND THEY GAVE US
THEY SAID IN GENERAL WE ARE ONE
IN OUR TWO IN RESIDENTIAL AND
WE PUT OUR THREE AND OUR FOUR
IN TRANSITION.
THEY GAVE US THAT FORMULA THEN
WE GOT THIS MAP TELLING US NO
ACTUALLY LOOK YOU'VE GOT A LOT
OF OUR FOUR AND A LOT OF OUR
THREE STILL BE IN RESIDENTIAL
WHICH WAS SUPPOSED TO BE OUR
ONE IN OUR TWO RIGHT.
WHAT WE'RE REALLY TALKING ABOUT
IS A MODIFIER OF LIGHT
RESIDENTIAL.
IT ALSO WASN'T A DOWN ZONING
FOR WE DIDN'T HAVE A UNICARE WE
DIDN'T HAVE TO LIKE SO AND
THAT'S A SORT OF IF WE HAD SOME
FLEXIBILITY TO PUT A FEW
OF THESE ARE THREE OR FOUR
POCKET'S INTO RESIDENTIAL AND
RECOMMENDED DOWN ZONE BECAUSE
WE DIDN'T HAVE HEIGHT CAP AND
WE DIDN'T HAVE THAT SORT
OF RIGHT.
I THINK THAT WAS MR. LEONARD'S
PROPOSAL.
THAT'S HOW I TOOK IT.
>> AND GOING BACK TO THE CHERRY
PICKING THOUGH, I'D BE
CONCERNED THAT THEN THERE ARE
THINGS ZONED OUT FOR THAT WORK
BUT IN TRANSITION THAT WE'RE
NOT CALLED OUT BECAUSE THEY
WEREN'T DOWN THAT MIGHT BE
SINGLE STOREY AND WE JUST DON'T
KNOW BECAUSE WE'RE NOT LOOKING
AT THEM IN.
THIS BRINGS ME THE CONCERN
OF LIKE JUST WHY ARE WE ARE WE
LOOKING THIS RALLY THIS YEAR
YOU LOOK AT EVERYTHING BUT THEN
YOU GET TO THE ZONING MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AND MY BIGGEST
CONCERN IS THIS IS TAIL WAGGING
DOG TYPE BEHAVIOR.
THIS IS WE HAVE THESE EDGE
CASES THAT AREN'T FITTING
CLEANLY INTO IMPERFECT RULES
BUT THIS IS ALSO A GUIDANCE
DOCUMENT AND TRYING MY PROPOSAL
DIDN'T PASS BUT I'M TRYING TO
FIND A PROPOSAL TO TREAT THIS
LIKE A GUIDANCE DOCUMENT
INSTEAD OF SURGICAL ZONING MAP
AND MOVE FORWARD WITH IT
BECAUSE I DON'T LIKE DO NOT
WANT TO CRACK RESIDENTIAL OPEN
AGAIN.
I DON'T WANT TO GO BACK TO
COUNCIL AND I DON'T WANT TO
DEFY COUNCIL SO I WANT TO TAKE
THE RULES I'VE GOT AND APPLY
THEM IN A STRAIGHTFORWARD WAY
AT A LEVEL SEVENTEEN ON A
TUESDAY NIGHT AND TRY TO LOOK
AT THESE.
WE'VE NOW SPENT ALMOST TWO FULL
MEETINGS LOOKING AT RELATIVE TO
OUR MAP TINY POCKETS AND I JUST
WANT TO GET THROUGH IT.
IT'S WE'RE GOING TO HAVE AN
OPPORTUNITY TO BE MORE SURGICAL
IN THE ZONING THAT AND I DON'T
I DON'T HAVE ANY HEARTBURN
ABOUT TRANSITION AS A CONCEPT.
IT IS DEFINITIONAL INFLEXIBLE
IT DEFINITION REALLY BROAD.
IT CAPTURES A LOT.
THE NAMING IS GREAT BUT LIKE
IT'S FINE IT'S FINE.
SO AS RESIDENTIAL IT'S LIMITING
BUT WE GOT TO DEAL WITH THE
LIMITS IN THE EFFORT TO MOVE
THIS FORWARD.
WOULD IT BE HELPFUL KIND
OF GOING BACK COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, QUESTION ABOUT
SEEING A MAP THAT SHOWS THE
TRUE SEGMENTATION OR THE
TERRAIN JUST SO THAT WE HAVE A
SENSE OF CONTEXT AND SCALE
OF HOW IMPACTFUL THIS WOULD BE?
I SUPPOSE TO DO SO I MEAN THE
CRACK OPEN FOR STUFF LIKE WOULD
THAT BE THAT'S WORTH OFFERING?
I'M HAPPY TO TRY TO ACCOMPLISH
THAT TRYING TO FIND SOME
PATHWAY TO HELP YOU WRESTLE
WITH THESE DECISIONS TO ON A
STRAW MAP FROM SO WHAT EXACTLY
WITH THIS MAP SHOWS.
>> SO BEFORE WHEN I WOULD
ENVISION IS A MAP THAT TAKES
THE RESIDENTIAL AREA AND
PERHAPS TIERS THAT BIFURCATES
SOMEHOW VISUALLY SHOWS AREAS
THAT GENERALLY AGAIN BECAUSE I
THINK PART OF THIS IS TRYING TO
SIMPLIFY GENERALLY TAKES ARE
ONE IN OUR TWO AREAS AND
APPLIES WHAT YOU RESPONDED TO
COUNCIL ON AND IDENTIFIED THE
REMAINING AREAS OF THE
RESIDENTIAL LAND USE AREA AND
IT ACCOUNTS FOR HIGHER DENSITY,
HIGHER HEIGHTS BUT STILL
PRIMARILY RESIDENTIAL AREAS
WHICH WOULD BE THERE ARE THREE
IN OUR FOUR DISTRICT AREAS THAT
IT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE TO PUT
INTO TRANSITION BECAUSE IT'S
NOT ALONG THE CORRIDOR.
>> YOU KNOW, I MEAN I THINK
IT'S NOT REALLY CHERRY PICKING
BECAUSE A LOT OF THERE ARE
THREE OR FOUR DISTRICTS WE'RE
NOT LOOKING AT BECAUSE IT MAKES
SENSE FOR THEM TO BE IN
TRANSITION GIVEN THEIR
PROXIMITY TO HAVING EXISTING
TRANSITION AREAS.
SO THE ONES WHO ARE REALLY
STRUGGLING WITH ARE THESE
POCKETS OF RESIDENTIAL IT DON'T
FEEL LIKE THEY SHOULD BE
TRANSITIONED AND AGAIN, THIS IS
A SMALL PORTION OF OUR MAP AND
I'M REALLY CURIOUS ABOUT I MEAN
AT LEAST THE ONES THAT I'VE
LOOKED AT CURRENT FORM IS NO
MORE THAN THREE STORIES LIKE IF
WE'RE GOING TO TAKE A STRAW
POLL I'M WONDERING IF IT'S
EVERYTHING THAT'S LEFT THAT'S
NOT I'M ONE OF THOSE THINGS
LIKE WHERE PEOPLE STAND ON THAT
BECOMING PART OF RESIDENTIAL
LIKE OUR THREE OR FOUR THAT
HAVE NOT ALREADY BEEN CORDONED
OFF.
SO HOW IT WAS HOW HOW WOULD
EFFECTIVELY I WOULD RATHER HAVE
BEEN CRACKED OPEN OR ASKED FOR
MORE WORK ME TO OK EVEN IF I
LOSE UP TO SO WHAT IS IT YOU IN
TERMS OF THE VOTE AGAIN SO WE
ARE VOTING THEN THE AREAS THAT
ALL OF THEM I GUESS RIGHT.
>> ALL OF THE ONES THAT WE
HADN'T DECIDED ANYTHING ON.
WELL I THINK THAT SOME OF THEM
ARE IN HERE BECAUSE THEY
ACTUALLY ARE CURRENTLY SHOWN AS
A TRANSITION AND WE THERE'S
QUESTIONS YOU ARE ON ONE RIGHT
NOW.
SEVENTEEN LIKE THE ONES THAT WE
RESOLVED THAT WE CAN'T REMEMBER
WHAT WE DID.
SORRY WE'RE NOT GOING BACK.
OK, FINE.
>> OK SO SEVENTEEN SIXTEEN
FIFTEEN FOURTEEN.
>> WOW.
TWELVE NINE EIGHT SIX FIVE AND
ONE YEAH THERE'S ONE THAT YOU
JUST MENTIONED THAT'S THE GOLF
COURSE THAT HAS ONE BY ONE
SORRY NOT TWELVE NOT TWELVE.
YEAH THE REST OF THE REST
OF THEM.
HOW WOULD WE FEEL ABOUT BUMPING
ALL OF THOSE OUR FOR OUR
FATHERS IN THEIR THIRTIES BACK
DOWN TO RESIDENTIAL FROM
WHEREVER THEY WOULD HAVE LANDED
.
THAT'S WHAT WE'RE VOTING ON
RIGHT THERE CURRENTLY ACTUALLY
THEY ARE CURRENTLY RESIDENTIAL
AND KEEPING THEM RESIDENTIAL IN
RESIDENTIAL AND I I BELIEVE BUT
WE CAN VERIFY I THINK THAT NONE
OF THEM ARE CURRENTLY MORE THAN
THREE STORIES.
>> I'M SORRY THIS WAS AN
EXCEPTION.
THE EXCEPTION IS JUST THE AG
ONE AND YEAH.
>> AND 17 WHAT 17 OF THEM ARE
MORE THAN A TRIPLEX HANOVER
GOLF AN OUTING AGAINST THE AG.
>> ALL OF THEM ARE MORE THAN A
TRIPLEX.
CORRECT.
THEY'RE MULTIPLE AXIS BUT WITH
WHAT WE JUST TALKED ABOUT WHO
KNOWS HOW LONG AGO IF THE FORM
IF YOU TAKE THAT CLAUSE THIS
WOULD BE FINE.
YES.
CARACAS IS WHAT WE THINK
BUMPING THEM TO RESIDENTIAL
THEN SEVENTEEN CAN BE.
>> THAT'S WHAT I THOUGHT
BECAUSE THAT'S WHAT IT NEEDS TO
BE.
OK, SO VOTE IS EVERYTHING BUT
SAY TWELVE RIGHT?
IT'S LIKE ALL RIGHT EVERYTHING
THAT THE AG ZONED CURRENTLY
ZONES I'M LEAVING THE
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY WITH THE
UNDERSTANDING THAT AS WE JUST
MODIFY THAT THERE WOULD BE
ALLOWED TO CONTINUE THAT WOULD
NOT LEAD TO SOME KIND OF A
DOWNTURN IN THE FUTURE.
>> RIGHT.
BECAUSE THIS IS NOT ZONING
RIGHT NOW.
>> OK, SO THAT AGAIN THAT YES.
>> YES.
THAT WORKS WELL WE'RE GOING TO
BRING A STRAW POLL, OK?
NO BUT YES.
>> AND JUST BECAUSE JUST I WANT
TO REMIND YOU THAT THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION THAT YOU GOT SAID
THAT THE TRIPLEX AND THREE
STORY CAP WERE INTENDED FOR
RESIDENTIAL AS IT WAS DEFINED
IN THIS VERSION OF THE CAR PLAN
WHICH IS OUR ONE IN OUR TWO.
SO IF THE THIRD VERSION OF THE
CURRENT PLAN DOES WHAT WE'VE
JUST SAID, THEN THERE ARE
THINGS THAT CAME INTO
RESIDENTIAL BUT WERE CAME INTO
THE COMP PLANS RESIDENTIAL FROM
OUR THREE IN OUR FOUR THAT WAS
A IS NOT CAPPED AND THEY ARE
THEY THE CLAIMS OF THE UNIT
NUMBER IS NOT CAPPED THE UNIT
NUMBER AND THE HEIGHT IS NOT
CAPPED EITHER BUT ESCAPE THE
THREE STORIES.
>> NO BECAUSE THE THREE STORY
AND THE UNIT CAP ONLY APPLIES
TO OUR ONE IN OUR TWO BECAUSE
THAT'S RESIDENTIAL AS THIS
DRAFT DEFINES IT ARE THREE IN
OUR FOR WHAT YOU'RE GOING NO NO
THAT'S NOT RIGHT.
NO WE'RE HAVING THIS BECAUSE
THERE ARE AREAS THAT ARE NOT
ARE ONE TWO ARE TWO RESIDENTIAL
WAS THE STARTING POINT IN
BUILDING THIS MAP.
THE RESIDENTIAL FEATURE LENGTH
MAP INCLUDES EVERYTHING FROM R
ONE TO OUR FOUR.
>> NO I UNDERSTAND THAT BUT THE
COUNCIL RESOLUTION APPLIED ONLY
TO R ONE OR TWO
.
BUT YOU CAN'T REALLY DO THAT
BECAUSE THEY WERE NOT GOING TO
HAVE OUR ONE IN THERE.
TWO I'D HAVE TO GO BACK AND
LOOK BUT THE CURRENT PLAN SAYS
THAT THREE STORIES IS THE
GENERAL MAXIMUM FOR
RESIDENTIAL.
THE RESIDENTIAL IS DEFINED BY
THE LAND USE MAP AND IF WE MOVE
ALL THIS UP TO RESIDENTIAL IN
THE LAND USE MAP WE CAN CROSS
OUR FINGERS BEHIND OUR BACK AND
SAY THAT WE DIDN'T MEAN IT BUT
WE MEANT IT.
WE SAID IT WELL WE HAVE TO
CHANGE IT ON THE TAX AND IF WE
CHANGE IT IN THE TAX THEN IT
CRACKS OPEN THE ISSUE THE
COUNCIL WANTED NOT CRACKED BUT
OK SO THE PROBLEM IS THAT ON
THE PAGE OF THE COMP PLAN THAT
TALKS ABOUT THE THAT YOU GUYS
ADDED TO TELL US HOW YOU GOT TO
WHAT YOU GOT TO IT I THINK IT'S
AT THE BEGINNING OF CHAPTER
FIVE.
RIGHT.
IT'S IT IS THE CONVERSION
METHODOLOGY.
>> IT WAS YEAH.
IT WAS THE ONE ON MONTANE ONE
TIME SO IT'S RESIDENTIAL OR ONE
OR TWO.
YEAH EXACTLY.
>> AND SO AND THE COUNCIL
RESOLUTION THAT YOU GOT FROM
COUNCIL SAID THIS HEIGHT LIMIT
AND THIS UNIT CAP APPLIES TO
RESIDENTIAL AS IT IS DEFINED IN
THE SECOND DRAFT WHICH WAS OUR
ONE IN OUR TWO.
>> OK, WHAT I'M SAYING IS WE'RE
NOT GOING TO SAY IN RESIDENTIAL
THAT RESIDENTIAL CAN BE TALLER
THAN THREE STORIES IF THESE
CONDITIONS ARE MET WHICH WE'RE
NOT PREPARED TO SAY CAN'T THEN
YOU'RE WHAT YOU'RE SAYING IS
NOT TRUE.
WE'RE NOT SAYING AND BECAUSE WE
DON'T MEAN IT AND THE LAND THE
LAND USE MAP HOW WE DEFINED OUR
DISTRICTS AND WHAT THE LAND USE
MAP THAT'S GOING TO DRIVE WITH
THE ZONING IS THAT'S THE
RECOMMENDATION THE PROCESS BY
WHICH THE ORIGINAL MAP WAS
MADE.
IT'S JUST BACKGROUND.
IT'S JUST ATMOSPHERICS.
IT'S THE LEGISLATIVE HISTORY.
IT DOESN'T CONTROL THE LAND USE
MAP AND TO THE EXTENT THAT IT
CONTROLS AT THE RECOMMENDATION
BUT UNLESS WE'RE PREPARED TO
ACTUALLY SAY CARVE OUT A NEW
EXCEPTION, I DON'T THINK I'M TO
WANT TO JUST CARVE OUT YOU HAVE
A COUNCIL MEMBER YOU COULD TELL
ME BUT IF WE'RE WILLING TO SAY
IN RESIDENTIAL THAT IF A
DISTRICT WAS ORIGINALLY ZONED R
THREE ON X DATE IT CAN GO
HIGHER THEN THAT'S NOT WHAT WE
MEAN.
THAT WOULD BE A REALLY WEIRD
THING TO DO.
I AGREE BUT BUT I'M NOT HAVING
VERY MUCH FUN BECAUSE BECAUSE I
REALLY DID I KNOW THAT IT WAS
COUNCIL'S INTENT THAT THIS
WOULD NOT TURN'S PARK WAS
CARVED OUT.
NO IT'S NOT IT'S IT'S REALLY
NOT IT'S REALLY NOT IT WAS
COUNCIL'S INTENT THAT IF IT WAS
A LIMIT FOR R ONE AND R TOO BUT
THAT'S GOING AWAY AND YEAH WELL
I WELL YEAH.
AND SO RIGHT NOW WHAT WE'RE
STRUGGLING WITH IS WE WANT TO
SIMPLIFY THIS AND SO WE WANT TO
MAKE IT MORE FLEXIBLE
RESIDENTIAL CATEGORY THE THE
SIMPLEST TO WAYS THAT I SEE IS
EITHER GOING KIND OF WHAT YOU
COMMISSIONER ADAMS ORIGINALLY
RECOMMENDED WHICH IS LIKE AH
THREE OR OR GO TO AH FOREGOES
THE TRANSITION ROUTE OR WE DO
IT HERE RIGHT.
OTHERWISE WE DON'T CREATE
SEGMENTATION THAT COUNCILS AND
TYPE ONES COUNCILS AND THAT WAS
OUR ONE OR TWO THERE IS A
TRIPLEX CAP AND A THIRTY FIVE
OR SO THREE SALARY CAP THEN I
THINK THE ONLY WAY WE
ACCOMPLISH COUNCILS IN INTENT
IS EITHER THROUGH THE
DESIGNATION OF TRANSITION
LITTLE PROBABLY CLEANER FROM
LIKE THE OVERALL PROCEDURAL
STANDPOINT OR CREATED THE TERYN
MECHANISM OF I SAY THIS AND
JUST IT ALSO KIND OF PROVIDED
RESIDENTIAL OR OF WE'RE TALKING
ABOUT RIGHT.
AND SO I'M INCLINED JUST FOR
THE PURPOSE OF CLARITY I
SUPPOSE I'M ACTUALLY LIKE IF
WE'RE NOT PREPARED AS A GROUP
TO SAY LIKE PUSH BACK KIND
OF LIKE ENTIRELY OF THIS IDEA
THAT PRICE AND IT'S ADHERING TO
THE CREATORS AND THE WISHES
COUNCIL THAT I'M INCLINED TO GO
TO CARE ABOUT AND THAT'S WHERE
I THINK WE TAKE A LOOK AT THE
MAP TO SEE HOW HOW MESSY DOES
GET FOR THE CRACKING OPEN
OF RASI TO A CERTAIN EXTENT.
BUT BUT I THINK THAT'S REALLY
OUR ONLY TWO CHOICES TO
ACCOMPLISH IS GOING OUR THREE
SO MY MY PROPOSAL IS OUR THREE
IN OUR FOUR SPLIT INTO
TRANSITION IN RESIDENTIAL RIGHT
.
THE THIRD OPTION IS EVERYTHING
THAT WE'RE LOOKING AT HERE GOES
FROM WHETHER IT'S OUR THREE OR
FOUR DOWN TO SIT DOWN TO WRITE
DOWN RESIDENTIAL.
WE WERE ABOUT TO GO IN THAT
DIRECTION AND SOME FOLKS HAD
CONCERNS IF THERE'S IF THERE'S
A PUSH TO GO CRACK OPEN
RESIDENTIAL, I'D LIKE A STRAW
POLL ON IT BECAUSE I'M GOING TO
VOTE NO.
OK, I'M GOING TO GO I DON'T
WANT TO DOING THIS.
THIS IS LIKE SIXTEEN WELL BUT
IT'S ALSO IMPORTANT TO NOT
THESE PARTICULAR ONES BUT JUST
IN GENERAL SORRY I DIDN'T MEAN
TO CUT YOU OFF.
>> I MEAN THIS IS THE CRUX
REALLY OF THE COMP PLAN IN A
LOT OF WAYS IS THE 60 PERCENT
OF LAND LAND THAT IS SINGLE
FAMILY, SINGLE FAMILY AND I
THINK THAT'S REALLY WHAT WE'RE
GRAPPLING WITH IS IS HOW TO
DESIGNATE THAT MOVING FORWARD.
>> BUT IT'S IT'S A HUGE PIECE.
YEAH, BUT WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT WE'RE ONLY TALKING ABOUT
TINY SLICES OF IT.
THAT'S GOT US HUNG UP ABOUT
THOSE TINY SLICES.
WE WOULD BE MOVING ON AND WE
WOULD BE FINALIZING.
>> WELL I DON'T I MEAN I'M I'M
JUST CONCERNED PERSONALLY THAT
WITH THESE PARTICULAR 17 CASES,
17 CASES THEN KIND OF WHAT MR.
LEINERT PROPOSED WHICH IS LIKE
WHAT DOES THIS LOOK LIKE ON THE
GROUND BUILT NOW?
>> YEAH.
YEAH, OK, LET'S LET'S STRAW
POLL THIS BULLETING
OF RESIDENTIAL AND DOING A NEW
MAP THE TEST YOUR MAP BUT NO
NOT LIKE JUST WHAT MR. HAD
SUGGESTED LIKE CREATING IT SO
WE CAN SEE WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
IF YOU HAVE LIKE ONE IN OUR TWO
AND ONE COLOR ARE JOINED BY THE
OTHER THREE IN OUR FOUR I'M
GUESSING THAT WOULD SORT
OF THAT ARE SORT OF SIMILAR AND
LIKE THE ONES ON THIS THE HARD
CASES, THE HARD CASES AND THEN
I KNOW WHAT THOSE BEING NEW
THOSE WOULD BE AND THEN THEY
WOULD BE IN A NEW CATEGORY I
THIS IS THE THING I THINK IT'S
GOING TO BE SO TINY THE WELL
SORRY THAT'S WHY I'M GONNA VOTE
NO ON BIFURCATING
.
>> I DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW I'M
GOING TO VOTE BECAUSE I YEAH.
>> THE PROPOSAL I THINK THAT WE
SHOULD TAKE A STRAW VOTE ON IS
MR BLAIR'S PROPOSAL TO TEAR THE
MAPS EFFECTIVELY THE ENTIRE MAP
OR JUST THESE JUST CREATE A NEW
CATEGORY FOR THESE HARDCASE?
>> I THINK IT'D HAVE TO BE THE
WHOLE MAP.
I THOUGHT WAS THE WHOLE MAP.
MR LEADER, WHAT DID YOU INTEND
I WOULD HAVE DONE THIS SORT
OF STARTING WITH A RESIDENTIAL
DESCRIPTION THAT INCLUDES TWO
CATEGORIES ONE THAT IS
REFLECTIVE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
DIRECTION AND CORRESPONDING
PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION AND
ANOTHER ONE THAT DOESN'T CREATE
NONCONFORMITY OF OUR FOUR IN
OUR CITIES THAT ARE NOT ALONG
COURTERS.
>> AND THEN I WOULD DO MY BEST
TO DO A SOME VERSION OF THIS
FUTURE LAND USE MAP THAT SHOWS
WHERE THOSE HOW THAT
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT MIGHT BE
MIGHT BE SHOWN DIFFERENTLY
BASED ON THOSE TWO FACTORS.
I MEAN I THINK YOU'RE TALKING
ABOUT TIERS, WHATEVER I REALLY
THINK IT MIGHT BE IT TO I WOULD
PROBABLY THINK IT IS TWO
DIFFERENT RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
DO YOU THINK THAT INCLUDES
THINGS OTHER THAN THE 17?
I WOULD START WITH THESE I
DON'T KNOW UNTIL I SORT
OF FIGURE OUT I'M GOING TO
BUILD THAT MAP I DON'T KNOW.
BUT I WOULD START FOCUSING ON
THESE BECAUSE I THINK THESE ARE
PRETTY INDICATIVE OF THE
STRUGGLE THAT YOU'RE HAVING.
THEY'RE GOOD LABORATORIES TO
TRY THAT LANGUAGE OUT AND WHAT
THIS WOULD DO BECAUSE I GUESS
LIKE SMARTPHONES WOULD
TRANSITION SOME OUR PHONES
WOULD BE IN THIS NEW THING
SIMILAR TO SOME OUR THREES
WOULD BE IN TRANSITION STILL
SOME ARE THREES.
SO IT'S REALLY LESS ABOUT THE
CURRENT ZONING AND MORE ABOUT
THE CURRENT LAND USE AND FOR
FUTURE LAND USE TOO.
>> AND AND SOME OF THE EXISTING
ZONING IS GOING TO HELP SORT
YEAH THOSE ARE RIGHT OF COURSE.
>> OF COURSE.
BUT I THINK THAT'S THAT'S THE
CRUX OF THE PROBLEM IS LIKE
IT'S ZONING THIS ONE THING IN
PRACTICE IT'S THIS OTHER THING
AND WE'RE AND THERE'S A LOT
OF ANXIETY ABOUT WE'RE ALREADY
TENSE AND WE'RE ONLY LIKE TWO
STORIES AND NOW YOU'RE GOING TO
IT'S THE EIGHT STORIES SO OK SO
WE ARE DOING A STRAW POLL ON
THIS NOTION OF SEEING WHAT IT
WOULD LOOK LIKE SPLIT UP.
>> YES.
OK, CRYSTAL CLEAR.
CRYSTAL CLEAR.
ALWAYS IN FAVOR.
YEAH.
ONE, TWO, THREE, FIVE OR FIVE
OPPOSED TO OK DO WE THINK FOR
TONIGHT WE CAN PUT THIS
WHATEVER THIS WAS TO THESE
THESE SITES THIS MAP SITUATION.
>> WELL I THINK WE NEED TO HAVE
DONE THAT.
>> YOU NEED TO WIN.
I THINK YOU WHICH IS RIGHT.
>> YEAH.
YES.
DO YOU DATE CERTAIN FOR US ARE
WE DISCUSSING THIS AGAIN AT THE
NEXT TWO WEEKS?
ARE WE STILL DOING OUR
COMPLIANCE ON FOREVER AND EVER
UNTIL WE DIE?
>> IT SOUNDS GREAT.
>> I KNOW SORT OF LIKE GUYS AND
I KNOW BASED ON WHAT WE DID AN
HOUR AGO THERE'S LIKE
INDUSTRIAL LANGUAGE THAT NEEDS
TO BE CLEANED UP.
I DON'T ALSO THAT I CANNOT
REMEMBER IF WE GOT THROUGH
THE
REST OF THE COMMENTS OF YEAH
LIKE WE HAVEN'T DONE ANY
OF THAT.
WE SHOULD NOT DO THAT RIGHT
NOW.
CAN YOU PLEASE NOTE THAT THERE
WERE LIKE FIVE PLACES THAT SAY
LIGHT INDUSTRIAL IN THIS
DOCUMENT AND LIKE AT LEAST
THREE OF THEM NEED TO BE
CHANGED.
THANK YOU.
OK, CAN WE CLOSE THIS ONE FOR
TONIGHT?
WE WANT TO DO ANYTHING WITH THE
AND SEE DO WE HAVE TO VOTE TO
TAKE UP IS THIS CONSIDERED ANY
BUSINESS YOU CANNOT VOTE IT UP
AND I WOULD SUGGEST IT WAS
GREAT.
YEAH, I PUT UP BUT THERE'S A
COUPLE MORE ISSUES WITH THE
MAP.
YEAH.
THAT FOR ME NEED TO BE ON THE
TABLE.
WE HAD A NUMBER OF PEOPLE SPEAK
ABOUT UPLAND AND THAT IS
TRANSITION BUT IT IS A SPUR IT
IT YEAH IT'S A SPUR HALF
OF WHICH IS DIRT THAT ENDS IN A
DEAD END AND WHILE IT IS HEMMED
IN ON EITHER SIDE MULTIFAMILY
AND COMMERCIAL AND STUFF IT IS
AN ENTIRELY AH ONE STREET.
>> SO THERE IS GOING TO BE A
LOT OF ANXIETY AND IT DOES NOT
AGAIN IT'S ONE OF THOSE THINGS
THAT IT'S A SPUR IT DOESN'T
LEAD ANYWHERE SO IT'S REALLY
HARD FOR ME TO AND IT'S AN AR
ONE BEING MADE INTO A
TRANSITION IN OUR ONE.
>> IT'S OUR ONE YEAH IT'S ON A
QUARTER THOUGH IT'S RIGHT BY A
BUNCH OF COMMERCIAL.
>> I KNOW IT LEADS INTO EXACTLY
IT LEADS INTO A CORRIDOR BUT
IT'S REALLY IT'S A DEAD END AND
IT'S A SPUR AND IT'S EXISTENCE
AS OUR ONE HAS NOT PREVENTED
THAT CORRIDOR FROM GROWING
ALTHOUGH CLEARLY YOU KNOW I
THINK WE LIKE TO PAINT THINGS
ALL THE SAME COLOR.
>> I CAN SEE IT BOTH WAYS BUT
THERE YOU KNOW, IT IS
DEFINITELY AN INCENTIVE AREA
FOR FOR THOSE REASONS AND THEN
THERE'S A COUPLE OF OTHER
THERE'S SOME ONE ON STADIUM
THAT'S GOING TO TRANSITION AND
THOSE ARE ONE ON WASHTENAW NEAR
COUNTY FARM PARK THAT IS GOING
INTO TRANSITION AND I JUST
THINK THESE THINGS ARE GOING TO
GIVE US A LOT OF TROUBLE.
SO I DON'T KNOW BECAUSE YOU
PROBABLY DON'T WANT TO TALK
ABOUT THEM BECAUSE THIS IS
THESE ARE THESE ARE AGAIN
ISSUES OF TRYING TO PUT OUT
FIRES BEFORE THEY BURN THE
HOUSE DOWN AND THAT'S NOT
REALLY YOUR JOB BUT IT JUST IS
A LITTLE BIT HARD FOR SOME R-1
AREAS TO BE YOU KNOW, HAVING A
THREE STOREY TRIPLEX LIMIT AND
OTHERS BEING IN THIS CATEGORY
OF TRANSITION.
NOW IF WE CAN HAVE A
DESCRIPTION OF TRANSITION THAT
MADE IT MORE CLEAR AND
COMFORTING THAT ACTUALLY THIS
IS QUITE A WIDE RANGE AND
TAPERS RIGHT.
THE PROBLEM FOR UPLAND IS THAT
IT WON'T TAPER BECAUSE IT'S
ADJACENT TO MULTI-FAMILY SO
THAT WON'T MAKE THEM HAPPY.
>> BUT SO I MEAN I JUST DON'T
KNOW WHAT TO DO ABOUT THAT ONE.
IT'S JUST IT'S JUST AGAIN IT'S
JUST A VERY ODD LITTLE REMNANT.
IT'S LIKE AN APPENDIX LIKE IT
SHOULD COME OUT IN SURGERY
SERIOUSLY.
>> IT'S LIKE A LITTLE LITTLE
BIT IN THE HISTORY THAT WAS
THERE BECAUSE IT WAS THE
JUNKYARD IN FRONT THAT THEN GOT
DEVELOPED THEN IT WAS THE
LITTLE RURAL RESIDENTIAL AREA
BEHIND THAT AND IT'S IT'S
REMAINED THAT DO WE I MEAN
THERE'S BEEN LOTS OF PLACES
LIKE THAT IN THE CITY.
DO WE KEEP IT?
DO WE MAKE CHANGES?
I GET THAT PEOPLE WANT TO
REMAIN WHAT THEY HAVE AND BUT
IS THAT OUR PRIMARY GOAL?
>> RIGHT.
IT'S NOT OUR PRIMARY GOAL BUT
THIS IS DEFINITELY ONE THING
THAT DOESN'T LOOK LIKE THE
OTHER THINGS IN TRANSITION.
YOU KNOW, IF TRANSITION IS
SUPPOSED TO BE A CONNECTOR
BETWEEN THINGS, THIS ISN'T EVEN
YOU KNOW, LIKE IT'S NOT PAVED
EVEN AND SO YES, SOMEDAY IT
WILL BE.
BUT DOES NEED TO BE ZONED RIGHT
NOW AS A TRANSITION CAN WAIT IS
IT A LIKE IT'S LIKE RUDDIMAN ON
THE MAP I HOPE IT'S NOT HUB.
MM.
I THOUGHT IT WAS I ACTUALLY
THOUGHT TO BE HONEST THOUGH WE
WERE TALKING ABOUT HERE ON VIEW
NO I'M SITTING BEHIND AND YEAH
NO IT'S HERE IT'S MIRFIN IT'S
THE EXTENSION OF SHAHMARAN.
>> YEAH RIGHT.
>> I DON'T KNOW IF IT'S IN THEM
I DIDN'T THINK IT WAS THE
ORANGE DOT I THOUGHT IT WAS IN
THE YELLOW BUT MR LEINERT
ANYWAY I'M JUST PUTTING THIS
OUT HERE AS SOMETHING THAT I, I
NEED TO EXPRESS HERE BECAUSE I
CAN'T TRY TO INFLUENCE THINGS
LIKE THIS WITHOUT YOUR YOU KNOW
VOTING ME DOWN OR STANDING WITH
ME RIGHT SO THE RESIDENTIAL
PORTION IS TRANSITION IS
TRANSITION BUT THE FIRST PART
OF THE STREET IS HUB BECAUSE
IT'S ON PLYMOUTH.
YEP RIGHT YEP.
YEP.
SO YEAH I THINK IT'S KIND OF A
MESS THERE SO IT'S IT'S LATE.
YEAH IT SURE DOES.
MAYBE YOU COULD SEND THE AREA
IN QUESTION WE'RE GOING TO HAVE
OF THESE ON THURSDAY THE
COMMISSION WE CAN ADD THESE
DEPTH FOR DISCUSSION SUPER.
YEP.
OK SO WE ARE POSTPONING ELEVEN
C TO MAYBE NEXT TIME MAYBE YEAH
YEAH YES YEAH THAT AND WE DO
PROBABLY REALLY TALK ABOUT
SEVENTEEN BECAUSE THAT'S THE
ARGO PARK AREA DELIVERY THAT'S
REALLY IN A CLASSIC SENSE
THAT'S A PRECARIOUS ENVIRONMENT
AND SO WHETHER TRANSITION IS
APPROPRIATE THERE I THINK WE
NEED TO THINK ABOUT THAT.
I THINK THAT WILL GET FIXED IN
MR LAWRENCE TO NEW MAP I THINK
SO TO OK, I'M GOING TO MOVE US
ALONG TO AGENDA ITEM NUMBER
TWELVE PUBLIC COMMENT.
OH MY GOD THIS IS THE SECOND
OPPORTUNITY FOR INDIVIDUALS TO
SPEAK FOR UP TO THREE MINUTES
ON ANY ISSUE.
FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE PRESENT
THEN REMOTE PARTICIPANTS SPEAK
ABOUT STARLINE UP ON THE PHONE
OR USE THE RIGHT HAND PICTURE
AND ZOOM IN FOR PHONE ACCESS
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE THIRTY FOUR SEVEN AND A
MEETING I'D NINE SEVEN SEVEN
SIX SIX THREE FOUR ONE TWO TWO
SIX.
I THINK ANYBODY IT'S ONLINE
KNOWS THE DRILL TO ANYONE
BECAUSE I WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS TIME.
YES I'LL KEEP IT BRIEF GO IT'S
LATE.
I APPRECIATE YOU GUYS THINKING
ABOUT THE TIERED RESIDENTIAL.
I ALSO WANT TO VOCALIZE MY
SUPPORT IN THE NAME
OF EXPEDIENCY WHICH MR ADAMS
CALLED OUT AND I THINK MR MILLS
YOU SUGGESTED IF WE SIMPLY TAKE
THESE SEVENTEEN SITES AND MAKE
THEM ALL RESIDENTIAL AND MOVE
ALONG I THINK THAT WOULD BE
EXCELLENT AS WELL.
BUT AGAIN YOU GUYS ARE THE
EXPERTS.
YEAH I APPRECIATE YOU STICK IT
UP FOR THESE WEIRD ODDBALL
SITUATIONS I THINK FOR
RESIDENTS OF WHICH I AM ONE
THAT THIS CAN FEEL VERY SCARY
AND OVERWHELMING AND LIKE A LOT
OF CHANGES BEING IMPOSED UPON
THEM.
I THINK THESE SMALL INSTANCES
IF WE COULD APPROACH WITH SOME
FLEXIBLE THOUGHT I THINK
ACTUALLY DO GAIN A SIGNIFICANT
AMOUNT OF POLITICAL CAPITAL.
RIGHT.
AND BUY IN AND COMMUNITY
SUPPORT AND SO I DO THINK THESE
LITTLE CHARLIE BROWN CHRISTMAS
TREES ON THE MAP ARE REALLY
IMPORTANT AND COULD HAVE A LOT
OF POSITIVE IMPACT ON THE
SUCCESS OF THE PLAN OR AT LEAST
THE REDUCE THE FRICTION OF THE
PLAN.
SO THANK YOU ALL AGAIN AND GOOD
NIGHT.
>> THANK YOU.
SEEING NOBODY ELSE IN COUNCIL
CHAMBERS DO WE HAVE ANYBODY
REMOTELY WHO HAS INDICATED THAT
THEY WOULD LIKE TO MAKE A
COMMENT TO ADAM?
>> JUST GO YOU CAN ADDRESS THE
PLANNING COMMISSION FOR UP TO
THREE MINUTES.
ADAM MOSCOVITCH HERE LAS VEGAS
DRIVE IN THE FOURTH QUARTER.
I LIVE IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
WHICH IS REALLY CLOSE TO THAT
STRIP OF WEST STADIUM THAT THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER JUST MENTIONED
THAT IN THE CURRENT MAP IS
HIGHLIGHTED AS TRANSITION.
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I'M
REALLY, REALLY LOOKING FORWARD
TO WITH THIS NEW COMPREHENSIVE
PLAN IS THE ABILITY TO SEE SOME
MORE DENSITY AND IN PARTICULAR
MORE COMMERCIAL USES ALONG
ALONG AREAS LIKE WEST STADIUM
NEAR MY NEIGHBORHOOD.
I MEAN THAT'S YOU KNOW, WHEN I
TAKE THE BUS TO GO DOWNTOWN MY
BUS STOP IS RIGHT ALONG THAT
STRIP OF WEST STADIUM.
IT'S A SHORT WALK FROM MY HOUSE
.
SO I'M I'M REALLY HOPING THAT I
BELIEVE A LOT OF THAT IS OUR
ONE CURRENTLY AND THEN I'M
REALLY HOPING THAT WITH THESE
CHANGES WE'RE DISCUSSING JUST
NOW THAT WE WOULD NOT LOSE THAT
BEING TRANSITION BECAUSE I'M
REALLY LOOKING FORWARD TO
HAVING THAT DENSIFY.
THANK YOU.
NO OTHER SPEAKERS CHAIR ALL
RIGHT.
>> UM, AGENDA ITEM THIRTEEN IS
OH I'M GOING TO CLOSE THE
PUBLIC COMMENT.
>> JENNA N14 DISCUSSION
PROPOSED BUSINESS DOES ANYONE
DARE?
ALL RIGHT.
14 ADJOURNED MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER MAL SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE.
WE ARE ADJOURNED SPON